---
title: Business Units Separation
icon: /docs/icons/best-practices.svg
editions: ["EE", "Cloud"]
---

Kestra Enterprise provides two primary levels of isolation within an instance: tenants and namespaces.

## Overview

The choice between tenants and namespaces for separation of Business Units depends on the level of data isolation, access control, and visibility into cross-workflow dependencies.

## When to use multiple tenants

A [tenant](../06.enterprise/02.governance/tenants.md) is an **isolated** environment within a Kestra instance. Tenants have their own **fully isolated resources** incl. flows, RBAC policies, secrets, variables, plugin defaults, and more. Users are global to the instance but can have different roles and permissions per tenant.

You can configure dedicated resources per tenant:
- dedicated internal storage (e.g. a separate S3 bucket per tenant)
- dedicated secrets manager backend (e.g. a separate Vault or AWS Secrets Manager per tenant)
- dedicated worker groups (e.g. special pool of workers intended to be used by a given tenant)
- flows, executions, and logs are by default **isolated** between tenants.

### Use cases for tenants

- **Customer separation**: If you operate a multi-tenant SaaS on top of Kestra and you need strict isolation between customers, each customer should have its own tenant, not just a dedicated namespace.
- **Fully isolated teams**: If even Admin users should not have visibility into other teams' workflows, tenants provide the highest level of isolation.

**Note:** Since tenants are **fully isolated**, there is no cross-tenant visibility. If you need to share flows (_e.g. team A runs a flow from team B as a subflow_) or dependencies between teams (_e.g. flow B should run only after flow A managed by a different team_), namespaces are a better option.

## When to use multiple namespaces

A [namespace](../06.enterprise/02.governance/07.namespace-management.md) is a logical grouping within a tenant that allows for structured organization of teams and projects, and fine-grained access control, while still allowing for cross-visibility of flows and dependencies across namespaces.

You can configure dedicated resources per namespace:
- dedicated internal storage (e.g. a separate S3 bucket per namespace)
- dedicated secrets manager backend (e.g. a separate Vault or AWS Secrets Manager per namespace)
- dedicated worker groups (e.g. special pool of workers intended to be used by a given namespace)
- flows, executions, and logs are by default **shared** across namespaces and the only isolation is at the RBAC level i.e. you can restrict specific users or groups of users to allow access to only specific namespaces.

### Use cases for namespaces

- **Team-based organization**: Use namespaces to separate flows and resources for different teams while keeping them within the same tenant and allowing cross-team visibility for users with the right permissions.
- **Project-based organization**: If multiple projects within a team need some level of separation but still require visibility across workflows.
- **Dependency management**: Namespaces allow visibility into dependencies (e.g., subflows and triggers), which makes it easier to track cross-team interactions.
- **RBAC control**: Namespaces allow role-based permissions at a granular level. A user may have only `READ` access within one namespace and full CRUD (`CREATE`, `READ`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`) access within another. Or some users may have access to only one namespace intended for their team and not others.


## Summary of when to use tenants vs. namespaces

| Feature                      | Tenant                                                                       | Namespace                                                                                              |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Full isolation**           | ✅ Yes                                                                        | ❌ No (unless configured via RBAC)                                                                      |
| **Cross-visibility**         | ❌ No (tenants don't share flows)                                             | ✅ Yes (namespaces can share flows and dependencies)                                                    |
| **RBAC control**             | ✅ Yes (separate roles per tenant)                                            | ✅ Yes (roles can be restricted to namespaces)                                                          |
| **Secrets manager backend**  | ✅ Opt-in dedicated secrets manager backend per tenant                        | ✅ Opt-in dedicated secrets manager backend per namespace                                               |
| **Internal storage backend** | ✅ Opt-in dedicated internal storage backend per tenant                       | ✅ Opt-in dedicated internal storage backend per namespace                                              |
| **Best for**                 | Customer separation in a SaaS, strict shared-nothing business unit isolation | Isolation of business units, teams or projects with centralized governance and cross-team dependencies |

## Recommendations

- Use **tenants** when strict isolation is required and you don't have cross-team workflow dependencies.
- Use **namespaces** for organizing business units and teams with centralized governance and visibility into cross-team dependencies.
- Configure **dedicated secrets and internal storage backend** at the lowest necessary level (tenant or namespace level) to follow the principle of least privilege and allow for painless management (e.g. lifecycle policy on an S3 bucket for a given team).
- If workflows depend on each other, prefer **namespace isolation over tenant isolation** to maintain visibility into workflow dependencies.

For a hands-on guide on how you can leverage RBAC to separate business units on a namespace-level, check the video below:

<div class="video-container">
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9I87QZJPl1Y?si=n0Izt0lK6BQ20Wfy" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
