---
title: Document Your Plugin
icon: /docs/icons/dev.svg
---

Here is how you can document your plugin.

First, let us remember the organization of a plugin project:

- The Gradle project can contain several plugins, we call it a group of plugins.
- The package in which a plugin is written in is called a sub-group of plugins. Sometimes, there is only one sub-group, in which case the group and the sub-group are the same.
- Each class is a plugin that provides one task, trigger, condition, etc.

The plugin documentation will be used on the Kestra website and the Kestra UI.

We provide a way to document each level of a plugin project.

## Document the plugin group

### Manifest attributes

Kestra uses custom manifest attributes to provide top-level group documentation.

The following manifest attributes are used to document the group of plugins:

- `X-Kestra-Title`: by default, the Gradle `project.name` property is used.
- `X-Kestra-Group`: by default, the Gradle `group.id` property with an additional group name is used.
- `X-Kestra-Description`: by default, the Gradle `project.description` property is used.
- `X-Kestra-Version`: by default, the Gradle `project.version` property is used.

If you follow the plugin structure of the template on GitHub, you should have something like this:
::collapse{title="Example"}

```groovy
group "io.kestra.plugin"
description 'Google Cloud Platform (GCP) plugins for Kestra.'

// [...]

jar {
    manifest {
        attributes(
                "X-Kestra-Title": project.name,
                "X-Kestra-Group": project.group + ".gcp",
                "X-Kestra-Description": project.description,
                "X-Kestra-Version": project.version
        )
    }
}
```
::

As you can see, the most important documentation attribute is the `description`, which should be a short sentence describing the plugins.

### Additional markdown files

You can add additional markdown files in the `src/main/resources/doc` directory.

If there is a file `src/main/resources/doc/<plugin-group>`, it will be inlined inside the main documentation page as the long description for the group of plugins.

For example, for the GCP group of plugins, the file is `src/main/resources/doc/io.kestra.plugin.gcp`, and it contains authentication information that applies to all tasks.

If there are files inside the `src/main/resources/doc/guides` directory, we will list them in a `Guides` section on the documentation for the group of plugins.

### Group Icon

It is possible to provide an icon representing the whole plugin group. If there is a [SVG file](https://www.worg/Graphics/SVG/) `src/main/resources/icons/plugin-icon.svg`, it will be used as the group icon.

## Document the plugin sub-groups

Each sub-group can be documented via the `io.kestra.core.models.annotations.PluginSubGroup` annotation that must be defined at the package level in a `package-info.java` file.

The `@PluginSubGroup` annotation allows setting:

- The sub-group `title`. If not set, the name of the sub-group will be used.
- The sub-group `description`, which is a short sentence introducing the sub-group.
- The sub-group `categories`, which is a list of `PluginCategory`. If not set, the category `MISC` will be used.

For example, for the GCP BigQuery sub-group:

```java
@PluginSubGroup(
    title = "BigQuery",
    description = "This sub-group of plugins contains tasks for accessing Google Cloud BigQuery.\n" +
        "BigQuery is a completely serverless and cost-effective enterprise data warehouse.",
    categories = { PluginSubGroup.PluginCategory.DATABASE, PluginSubGroup.PluginCategory.CLOUD }
)
package io.kestra.plugin.gcp.bigquery;

import io.kestra.core.models.annotations.PluginSubGroup;
```

### Sub-Group Icon

Each plugin sub-group can define an icon representing plugins contained in the sub-group. If there is a SVG file `src/main/resources/icons/<plugin-sub-group>.svg`, it will be used as the icon for the corresponding plugins.

For example, for the GCP BigQuery sub-group, the `src/main/resources/icons/io.kestra.plugin.gcp.bigquery.svg` file is used.

## Document each plugin

Plugin documentation will generate a [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/) that will be used to validate flows. It also generates documentation for both the UI and the website (see the `kestra plugins doc` command).

### Document the plugin class

Each plugin class must be documented via the following:

- The `io.kestra.core.models.annotations.Plugin` annotation allows providing examples.
- The `io.swagger.v3.oas.annotations.media.Schema` annotation, which the `title` attribute will use as the plugin description.

For example, the `Query` task of the PostgreSQL group of plugins is documented as follows:

```java
@Schema(
    title = "Query a PostgresSQL server."
)
@Plugin(
    examples = {
        @Example(
            full = true,
            title = "Execute a query.",
            code = """
                id: query_postgres
                namespace: company.team

                tasks:
                  - id: query
                    type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.postgresql.Query
                    url: jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:56982/
                    username: pg_user
                    password: pg_password
                    sql: |
                      select concert_id, available, a, b, c, d, play_time, library_record, floatn_test, double_test, real_test, numeric_test, date_type, time_type, timez_type, timestamp_type, timestampz_type, interval_type, pay_by_quarter, schedule, json_type, blob_type from pgsql_types
                    fetchType: FETCH
                """
        )
    }
)
```

For convenience, the `code` attribute of the `@Example` annotation is a list of strings. Each string will be a line of the example. That avoids concatenating multi-line strings in a single attribute.

You can add multiple examples if needed.

### Document the plugin properties

In a plugin, all properties must be annotated by `io.kestra.core.models.annotations.PluginProperty` and should provide documentation via the `io.swagger.v3.oas.annotations.media.Schema` annotation and validation rules via `javax.validation.constraints.*`.

The `@PluginProperty` annotation contains two attributes:

- `dynamic`: set it to true if the property will be rendered dynamically.
- `additionalProperties`: you can use it to denote the sub-type of the property. For example, when using a `Map<String, Message>`, you can set it to `Message.class`.

The Swagger `@Schema` annotation contains a lot of attributes that can be used to document the plugin properties. The most useful are:

- `title`: a short description of a property.
- `description`: long description of a property.
- `anyOf`: a list of allowed sub-types of a property. Use it when the property type is an interface, an abstract class, or a class inside a hierarchy of classes to denote possible sub-types. This should be set when the property type is `Object`.

The `@Schema` and `@PluginProperty` annotations can be used on fields, methods, or classes.

Many tasks can take input from multiple sources on the same property. They usually have a single `from` property, a string representing a file in the Kestra Storage, a single object, or a list of objects. To document such property, you can use `anyOf` this way:

```java
@PluginProperty(dynamic = true)
@NotNull
@Schema(
    title = "The source of the published data.",
    description = "Can be an internal storage URI, a list of Pub/Sub messages, or a single Pub/Sub message.",
    anyOf = {String.class, Message[].class, Message.class}
)
private Object from;
```

::alert{type="info"}
Due to limitations on how JSON Schema works, you cannot add `@Schema` on a Java enum type and the plugin property that uses this type. We advise avoiding using `@Schema` on enumerations.
::

## Document the plugin outputs

Outputs should be documented with the `io.swagger.v3.oas.annotations.media.Schema` annotation in the same way as plugin properties. Please read the section above for more information.

Only use the annotation mentioned above. Never use `@PluginProperty` on an output.

## Document the plugin metrics

Tasks can expose metrics; to document those you must add a `@Metric` annotation instance for each metric in the `@Plugin` annotation instance of the task.

For example, to document two metrics: a **length** metric of type `counter` and a **duration** metric of `type` timer, you can use the following:

```java
@Plugin(
    metrics = {
        @Metric(name = "length", type = Counter.TYPE),
        @Metric(name = "duration", type = Timer.TYPE)
    }
)
```
