---
title: Roles
---

## Roles and Bindings

A Role is a collection of permissions that can be assigned to Users, Service Accounts or Groups. A Role can be granted one or more permissions, which are defined by a combination of a Permission (e.g. `FLOW`) and an Action (e.g. `CREATE`).

You can think of a **Role** as a policy that defines what Permissions and Actions should be granted to someone. Once you attach a Role to a User, Service Account or Group, Kestra creates a **Binding**, and that Binding (_optionally limited to one or more namespaces_) grants the permissions defined by that Role to the User, Service Account or Group. This means that the Role itself does not grant any permissions to anyone. It's the Binding that grants permissions defined by a Role to the User, Service Account or Group.

A Binding can be optionally limited to one or more specific namespaces. When a Binding is tied to a namespace, it also automatically grants permissions to all child namespaces. For example, a Role attached to `prod` namespace will automatically grant access to `prod.engineering` namespace.

In short, Roles encapsulate permission boundaries that can be attached to users and groups across tenants and namespaces.

---

### Permissions

A Permission is a resource that can be accessed by a user or group. The following permissions are currently supported: `FLOW`, `BLUEPRINT`, `TEMPLATE`, `NAMESPACE`, `EXECUTION`, `USER`, `GROUP`, `ROLE`, `BINDING`, `AUDITLOG`, `SECRET`, `IMPERSONATE`, `SETTING`, `WORKER`, `TENANT`.

---

### Actions

An Action is a specific operation that can be performed on a Permission. The currently supported Actions are: `CREATE`, `READ`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`.

---

## Roles currently supported

Kestra currently supports the following roles by default:
- **Instance Admin**: This role has full access to all resources in all tenants.
- **Tenant Admin**: This role has full access to all resources in a specific tenant.

However, you can create additional roles with custom permissions.

