---
title: Admin Roles
---

Kestra doesn't have a concept of an admin user. Instead, it has a **Super Admin** and a tenant-scoped **Admin** roles, which can be assigned to any User, Service Account or Group. This allows you to grant multiple users with admin permissions if needed, and you can revoke those admin permissions at any time without having to delete the user.

---

## Admin

The Admin role has full access to all resources in a specific tenant. This includes managing users, service accounts, groups, roles, and their tenant-level permissions. By default, Kestra assigns the Admin Role to the user who created a tenant (unless the tenant was created by a user with a [Super Admin Role](02.admins.md#super-admin)).

::alert{type="warning"}
Note that Admin is **NOT a User**, but a **Role**. This means that there can be multiple users with that permission, and that role can be revoked from a user at any time.
::

Users with an `Admin` role in a given tenant:
- cannot see all workers in the Instance, you'd need the `Super Admin` role to see workers
- cannot directly change the password or email address of any User for privacy reasons; instead, they can only reset the password and send a mandatory reset-password request to the user
- cannot see all Users existing in the instance for privacy reasons
- can automatically send a **reset-password request** to any User, Service Account or Group in that tenant
- can invite Users (already existing in the instance) to that tenant by adding them to a Group or by assigning a Role to them. When selecting the user from the dropdown and typing the exact email address, the user will become visible and can be added to the tenant. That User or Service Account will then also be visible in the Users or Service Accounts page for that tenant, even if it has not been originally created in that tenant.

The Admin role can also create new Users or Service Accounts, modify or remove tenant-level access for existing Users or Service Accounts, and reset their passwords.

::alert{type="info"}
If you see an error when creating a new User or Service Account, it might be caused by a limit of your license. In that case, [reach out to us](https://kestra.io/contact-us) to validate and optionally upgrade your license.
::


### Creating a User with an Admin Role from the UI

Go to **Administration -> Users**. Then, click on the **Create** button and assign the `Admin` Role to the User.


### Creating a User with an Admin Role from the CLI

To create a User with an Admin Role from the CLI, use the `--admin` boolean flag along with `--tenant` property with the tenant ID (here `prod`):

```bash
kestra auths users create prod.admin@kestra.io TopSecret42 \
--tenant=prod --admin

# schema: select either `--admin` or `--superadmin`:
kestra auths users create <username> <password> \
--tenant=<tenant-id> --admin --superadmin
```

---

## Super Admin

A user with a Super Admin role has full access to all resources in a specific tenant from which it was created. Additionally, it has permissions to create or delete tenants, as well as centrally govern Roles, Groups, and Users on the instance level (i.e. across all tenants). Users with Super Admin Role can access executions, logs, audit logs, and other tenant information from any tenant if this is required for troubleshooting purposes or to help a user with a problem, e.g. if a user forgot their password, locked themselves out, etc.

When a User with Super Admin Role creates a new tenant, they aren't automatically granted an Admin Role to that tenant. They can assign Admin Role to themselves or any other User, Service Account or Group in that tenant. The tenant-level Admin Role must be explicitly granted.

**How can a User with a Super Admin Role grant someone an Admin Role without having an Admin Role in that tenant themselves?** There is a dedicated API endpoint accessible only to those with a Super Admin Role through a Management Console, allowing them to bypass the tenant-level permissions. Even though that user can grant permission to any tenant, that user will not be listed under tenant-level Users.

Super Admin is a powerful Role that allows you to troubleshoot any tenant issues without having to be an Admin in that tenant. Use that role sparingly and only for use cases that require it, such as creating a new tenant, troubleshooting tenant issues, or helping a user with a problem.

::alert{type="info"}
Except for the `Super Admin`, all Roles are always tied to one and only one [tenant ID](../03.tenants.md). We currently don’t provide any cross-tenant RBAC permissions. However, when configuring permissions using [our Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/kestra-io/kestra/latest), you can add modules to reuse the same configuration across tenants to achieve the same effect without duplicating the configuration.
::

The main difference between an **Admin** and a **Super Admin** roles is that the **Instance Admin** also has the `SUPERADMIN` permission. This extra permission grants access to create, manage or delete tenants.

A User with a `Super Admin` Role can:
- create/remove tenants
- create/remove Roles
- create/remove Users, Service Accounts, and Groups
- add users to, or remove them from, tenants or Groups
- add or remove Roles from Users, Service Accounts, and Groups in any tenant
- assign themselves or anyone else an `Admin` Role in any tenant.
- grant `Super Admin` Role to other Users, Service Accounts, and Groups
- do anything in their tenant: manage Users, Groups, Roles, flows, executions, logs, audit logs etc.
- get access other tenants' flows, executions, logs, audit logs, etc when needed for troubleshooting purposes
- see an instance-level overview of existing tenants.


### Creating a User with Super Admin Role from the UI

When launching Kestra for the first time, you will see a welcome screen allowing you to create a first User if you don't have one already. This User will automatically be assigned the `Super Admin` Role.

### Creating a User with Super Admin Role from the CLI

To create a User with a Super Admin Role from the CLI, use the `--superadmin` property:

```bash
kestra auths users create prod.admin@kestra.io TopSecret42 --superadmin

# schema: select either `--admin` or `--superadmin`:
kestra auths users create <username> <password> \
--tenant=<tenant-id> --admin --superadmin
```

If you use the same command as above, but change the `--superadmin` flag to just `--admin`, the user will be created with the `Tenant Admin` Role instead. Make sure to include the `--tenant` property with the tenant ID when creating a user with an `Admin` Role.

Note that only a user with a `Super Admin` Role can grant a Role with `SUPERADMIN` or `ROLES` permissions:
  - If you want to give a role with `SUPERADMIN` permission to someone, you need to have a `SUPERADMIN` permission yourself
  - If you want to give a role with `ROLES` permission, you need to have a `SUPERADMIN` permission, as otherwise, someone could grant themselves or someone else a `SUPERADMIN` permission.

