---
title: Docker
---

Many tasks in Kestra will run in dedicated Docker containers, including among others:
- [Script tasks](../05.developer-guide/03.scripts.md) running Python, Node.js, R, Julia, Bash, and more
- [Singer tasjs](../../plugins/plugin-singer/index.md) running data ingestion syncs
- [dbt tasks](../../plugins/plugin-dbt/index.md) running dbt jobs.

Kestra uses Docker for those tasks to ensure that they run in a consistent environment and to avoid dependency conflicts.

It is useful when you need to run a task in a specific environment or when you need to run a task that requires specific dependencies.

::alert{type="warning"}
Those tasks require a Docker daemon running on the host. Refer to the [Troubleshooting guide](../14.troubleshooting.md) if you encounter any issues configuring Docker.
::

---

## Defining a Docker runner

To run a task in a Docker container, set the `runner` property to `DOCKER`:

```yaml
runner: DOCKER
```

Many tasks, including [Python](../../plugins/plugin-script-python/tasks/io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.Script.md), use the `DOCKER` runner by default.

Using the `docker` property, you can define the Docker image to use for the task. You can use any image from a public or private container registry, as well as a custom local image built from a Dockerfile. You may even build a Docker image using the [Docker plugin](../../plugins/plugin-docker/index.md) and reference the built image by the tag.

```yaml
docker:
  image: ghcr.io/kestra-io/pydata:latest
```

The `docker` property also allows you to configure `credentials` with nested `username` and `password` properties to authenticate with a private container registry.

```yaml
id: private_docker_image
namespace: dev

tasks:
  - id: custom_image
    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.Script
    docker:
      image: ghcr.io/your_org/your_package:tag
      credentials:
        username: your_organization
        password: "{{ secret('GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN') }}"
    script: |
        print("this runs using a private container image")
```

The task documentation of each script task provides more details about available `docker` properties.

For more examples of running scripts in Docker containers, check the [Script tasks](../05.developer-guide/03.scripts.md) page.

Congrats :tada:! You've successfully completed Getting-Started tutorial.

Next, you can dive into:
- [Key concepts](../03.concepts/index.md).
- [Developer Guide](../05.developer-guide/index.md) that includes a more detailed explanation of everything covered in this tutorial.
- [Plugins](../../plugins/index.md) to integrate with external systems.
- [Deployments](../09.administrator-guide/index.md) yto deploy Kestra to production.
