---
title: "Technical Product Marketing Manager"
type: Marketing
---


## About Us
At Kestra, our mission is to simplify orchestration, unify disparate tools, and improve alignment between engineers and business users.

In an era where companies struggle with complex, rigid, and specialized tools, Kestra offers an open-source (7k GitHub stars), event-driven orchestration platform that streamlines business-critical operations.

Our platform brings structure, clarity, and collaboration, enabling businesses to build reliable workflows and manage them with confidence.

## Job Description
We are looking for a Technical Product Marketing Manager to join our dynamic team.

You will be responsible for developing and implementing marketing strategies for our innovative technology products, working closely with development and sales teams.

You will bridge the gap between our product and marketing efforts, translating complex technical features into engaging and accessible content that resonates with our technical audience.

This position requires a blend of technical expertise and creative skills to effectively communicate the value of our products.

## Key Responsibilities

-   **Collaborate with Product and Engineering Teams:** Understand new features and updates to translate them into compelling marketing content.
-   **Content Creation and Management:** Develop and manage diverse content such as social media posts, blog articles, video tutorials, and technical documentation based on product specifications and pull requests.
-   **Comprehensive Marketing Strategies:** Develop and execute marketing strategies to promote new features and product launches.
-   **Product Familiarity:** Use our products regularly to gain a deep understanding of their functionality and use cases.
-   **Messaging Crafting:** Create messaging that clearly communicates technical details and benefits to a technical audience.
-   **GTM Collaboration:** Work closely with other members of the GTM team to ensure consistency in messaging and branding across all channels.
-   **Performance Analysis:** Analyze and report on the performance of marketing campaigns, using insights to optimize future efforts.
-   **Business Model:** Conduct research to understand and optimize product pricing strategies.
-   **Competition Benchmarking:** Perform competitive analysis to identify key differentiators and market positioning.
-   **Voice of the Customer:** Engage with customers for case studies and gather feedback to influence product improvements and marketing strategies.
-   **Sales Enablement:** Develop internal content to assist the sales team in effectively positioning and defending our products.

## Qualifications

-   Proven experience in a technical product marketing role, preferably within the data engineering or software development industry.
-   Strong technical background with the ability to understand and articulate complex product features.
-   Exceptional writing and communication skills with a portfolio of relevant work.
-   Experience creating diverse content types, including blog posts, social media content, and video tutorials.
-   Proficiency in testing and using technical products to inform content creation.
-   Ability to think strategically and execute tactically.
-   Strong project management skills with the ability to manage multiple projects simultaneously.
-   Self-starter with the ability to work autonomously and drive projects from start to finish.

## Preferred Qualifications

-   Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Marketing, or a related field.
-   Experience with software and data engineering tools and/or infrastructure platforms.
-   Familiarity with SEO best practices and content marketing strategies.
-   Proficiency in video editing software and tools for creating engaging video content (nice to have, but not required).