---
title: "Technical Writer"
type: Product
---

We are looking for a Technical Writer. You will work closely with product, engineering and marketing teams to create content for our technical audience.

## What you will do

- Become an expert user and advocate for our products
- Document new features and enhancements for each upcoming release
- Maintain and extend our [Blueprints](/blueprints/), [Plugins Documentation](/plugins/) and [How-to Guides](https://kestra.io/docs/how-to-guides)
- Review and edit content produced by other team members to ensure clarity, consistency, brevity and technical accuracy
- Ensure that our written content is free from grammatical, spelling, and typographical errors
- Write blog posts on a biweekly cadence.

## What we’re looking for

- Strong technical background with the ability to understand and independently use our product
- Familiarity with software development and engineering concepts
- Exceptional writing, editing, and proofreading skills with a portfolio of relevant work
- Experience in content creation including documentation and blog posts
- Self-starter with the ability to work autonomously and drive projects from start to finish.

## Bonus points

- 2+ years professional experience as a data engineer, software engineer or a technical writer
- Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Marketing, or a related field.


## Interview process

The interview process consists of the following stages:

1. **Take-Home Assignment** — create a How-to Guide for a plugin of your choice. See the details of the task in the section below.
2. **Hiring manager interview** — meet our Product Lead to discuss your past experience and evaluate the mutual fit. We only send an invite to this interview for the best candidates who passed the take-home assignment.
3. **Meet the team** — meet 1-3 people from the team (*depending on our availability*) including our CTO, Marketing Lead and Developer Advocate.
4. **Meet our CEO** — discuss your questions about the company, salary expectations, possible start date and any other organizational details.

## Take-home assignment

Kestra is a powerful workflow orchestration tool. One of its strengths is its extensibility through plugins. Your task is to create a How-to Guide for a plugin of your choice.

1. Choose one plugin from the [catalog](https://kestra.io/plugins). Use the provided documentation and workflow examples for reference, but for your submission, you should build your own more comprehensive example.
2. Write a detailed [how-to guide](https://kestra.io/docs/how-to-guides/) that includes:
    - An introduction to the plugin and its functionality/purpose
    - Step-by-step instructions for configuring the plugin: e.g., to use the AWS plugin, you need to configure [AWS credentials](https://kestra.io/plugins/plugin-aws#authentication) as [Kestra Secrets](https://kestra.io/docs/concepts/secret) and to use plugins related to open-source technologies like Redis or Kafka, show how to set those up (*e.g., how to set up Kafka locally using Docker Compose*)
    - Example workflow(s) that demonstrate the plugin in action — ideally, build an engaging use case or story to make the guide interesting
    - (*optionally if applicable*) Troubleshooting tips for common issues users might encounter.


Send us your submission as a Google Doc, a Notion page, or a PDF document along with your application. **Note that we only review applications that include the take-home assignment submissions.** 

- Choose the length of the guide based on what you feel is appropriate to the use case. Being concise is preferable (max. 1500 words).
- Ensure your examples are working on either the latest stable version or the `develop` version of Kestra.
- Add UI screenshots or diagrams where appropriate.

**Evaluation criteria:**
- Clarity and readability 
- Technical accuracy and depth of the content
- Overall organization and flow of the document
- Bonus points if you also [contribute a blueprint](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/issues/new?assignees=&labels=blueprint&projects=&template=blueprint.yml) using that plugin
- Extra bonus points if you additionally share your feedback about kestra (both about our [Getting Started experience](https://kestra.io/docs/getting-started) and our [Docs](https://kestra.io/docs/))

## How to apply?

Send us your resume along with your **take-home assignment submission** to jobs@kestra.io with the subject `Technical Writer`. Please be aware that applications without the take-home assignment won't be considered. 