---
title: "Solutions Engineer"
type: GTM
---

### About Kestra

As the fast-growing **Open-Source Orchestration Platform**, Kestra is designed to handle applications, data pipelines, infrastructure operations, and business workflows at scale. By embracing**Everything-as-Code**, Kestra provides engineering teams with powerful, unified orchestration solutions, seamlessly accessible through a feature-rich UI and CLI. Whether scaling for enterprise needs or driving innovation, Kestra enables orchestration that works **Everywhere, All at Once**.

### What you'll do

**We are looking for our first North American-based Solutions Engineer!**

The Kestra GTM Team unifies various customer-facing positions, including Sales, Solutions Engineering, Customer Success, and Alliances. Our customer base has significantly grown and we need to expand our Customer Success team.

We are seeking a highly skilled and versatile Solutions Engineer to join our team in a dynamic 360° role, blending the expertise of a Technical Account Manager and Solution Architect. This position offers a unique opportunity to work across diverse responsibilities, with a focus on delivering top-tier technical solutions to new and existing customers. 

As our first North American-based Solutions Engineer you will have a rare opportunity to build up the role in an early stage startup and further our presence in the North American market. 

**In this role, your key responsibilities will include:**

- **Leading Technical Architecture & Custom Deployment Strategies**
    
    You will collaborate with senior engineers and architects to design and implement complex solutions. You'll drive discussions on a wide array of topics - from best practices to running flows across mulitple Kubernetes clusters, to designing flows that power cutting edge AI applications. 
    
    *Example: You’ll engage with senior software engineers and architects on diverse subjects like Kubernetes rolling upgrades, you'll plan with customers how to automate the orchestration of training and deployment of their AI models*
    
- **Monitoring and Driving Customer Success**
    
    Regularly tracking customer progress, you will actively participate in key engagements such as Kick-Off Meetings, "Ask Me Anything" sessions, and Quarterly Business Reviews, ensuring that customers achieve their business goals with Kestra. You will be the customers trusted advisor and ensure their continued success with Kestra. 


- **Proactive Customer Support for Kestra Installation**
    
    You’ll leverage your technical expertise to assist customers in the installation and configuration of Kestra, ensuring smooth deployments across a wide array of infrastructure options, configuring databases, provisioning resources with Terraform, and resolving any network or firewall issues. 
    
    
- **Enhancing Self-Serve Enterprise Documentation**
    
    You will play a pivotal role in improving our enterprise documentation by actively reporting enhancements and suggestions. You’ll work directly with our public documentation repository, ensuring our materials are comprehensive and accessible.
    
- **Evolving the Product**

    As our customers trusted advisor you will liase on their behalf with Product and Engineering teams to ensure new features and functionality are incorporated into the product. You will track product gaps and with your expertise in Enterprise software help further advance the product each release cycle.

**Technology Stack:**

- Hosting Provider: GCP/AWS/Azure/OnPrem/Bare and more! 
- Infrastructure: Docker, Kubernetes, Terraform, helm
- Datastore: PostgreSQL, MySQL, Kafka, Elasticsearch
- Backend: Java/Micronaut
- and a lot of plugins!

This role is fully remote, in North America

As a former Software Engineer with a proven track record of success in a customer-facing role, you're ready to take on a new challenge and make a significant impact in an early-stage startup environment. You are an accomplished “trusted advisor” who understands the needs of your customers, and now you're eager to bring your expertise and personal touch to a dynamic, evolving organization. It means that you're not afraid to take calculated risks and make decisions based on your experience and insights. You're confident in your ability to structure and deliver operations effectively, and you're comfortable adapting to the ever-changing landscape of a startup.

**Hard Requirements:**

- At least 5 years of experience as a Solutions Engineer, Technical Account Manager, or any other variation of the role.
- At least a previous experience as a Software Engineer in a modern IT context *(Containerized & Cloud-Native, Java Applications, Infrastructure-as-Code & DevOps practices…)*
- *Hard Requirements are filtering criteria. To ensure a mutual fit, we ask that applicants meet the listed hard requirements. These criteria are essential for success in this position.*

**Skills:**

- **Experience with customer-centric methodologies** to engage in strategic conversation and develop effective success plans.
- **Excellent written and verbal communication skills** to clearly and concisely document customer requirements, write detailed knowledge base articles, and prepare presentations and training materials effectively.
- **Ability to analyze customer data and feedback** to use this information to inform product development decisions, improve support processes, and identify opportunities for customer acquisition and retention.
- **Ability to work independently and as part of a team** to handle customer inquiries and resolve issues and will collaborate effectively with other departments to escalate issues & incidents.
- **Ability to review and evaluate existing internal tooling** and identify areas for improvement to enhance the customer experience, and automate repetitive tasks.

### Perks & Benefits

- Work from anywhere: We’re a remote-first company, so you can work from wherever feels like home. Plus, you’ll have access to coworking spaces worldwide if you ever need a change of scenery.
- Health coverage: From medical support, dental, and vision, we've got you covered.
- Home office setup on us: We’ll provide all the equipment you need to work comfortably.

### Our Hiring Process

We aim to move quickly (2-3 weeks), but we can adjust the timeline if needed.

- Recorded 10 minute demo of Kestra (details to be provided)
- Intro call with the hiring manager (45 mins)
- Technical screen with one of our engineers (45 mins)
- Team chat with two of your future colleagues (30 min)

We’re here to make the process smooth and transparent for you. At any point please reach out to the hiring manager for feedback. 
