---
title: "Integration Software Engineer"
type: Engineering
---

We are seeking a skilled Integration Software Engineer to join our dynamic team. As an Integration Software Engineer, you will play a pivotal role in designing, developing, and maintaining integration solutions that seamlessly connect our software systems with external platforms, APIs, and databases. This role requires a strong understanding of integration technologies, protocols, and best practices, along with excellent problem-solving skills and a passion for delivering high-quality solutions.

## What you will do:

As an Integration Software Engineer at Kestra, you will:
- Develop and implement [custom integration](/docs/developer-guide/plugins) based on our stack
- Perform thorough testing and debugging of integration solutions to identify and resolve issues promptly.
- Document integration processes, architectures, and configurations for reference and knowledge sharing.
- Stay updated on emerging technologies and best practices to continuously improve our integration capabilities.

We are searching for someone:
- Eager to learn (even with many years of experience)
- Curious
- Being able to work in a startup culture where delivering features quickly to our customers is the most important.

## Our stack

- **Backend:** Java, Micronaut
- **Frontend:** Vue.js, Bootstrap
- **Datastore:** Kafka, Elasticsearch, PostgreSQL, Mysql
- **Infrastructure:** Docker, Kubernetes, Terraform (go for our own providers)
- **Cloud:** GCP, AWS, Azure
- **Project:** Github (repository, actions, issues)
- You will work on many technologies, look at [our plugins list](/plugins/)

## What we’re looking for:

- **Professional Background:** A minimum of 4+ years in backend development, with solid experience in Java and familiarity with the modern Java ecosystem.
- **Polyglot position:** Experience in others language (python, node.js, go, ...).
- **Systems Knowledge:** Strong understanding of protocols, including REST, JSON, GRAPHQL, SQL, MQ, etc.
- **Quick Learner:** An eagerness to learn new technologies and frameworks, adapting quickly to different technical environments.
- **Problem Solver:** An ability to tackle technical challenges head-on, delivering simple and effective solutions.
- **Quality First:** An end to end position, you will be owner of the quality of your development.
- **Independence:** While teamwork is occasionally involved, the role demands a high degree of autonomy, requiring you to manage your workload and projects independently.

## Bonus points:

- Experience with contributing to or the maintenance of an open-source project.
- Experience with integration platforms/tools such as Talend, or Apache Camel is preferred.
- Familiarity with cloud platforms (e.g., AWS, Azure, Google Cloud) and containerization technologies (e.g., Docker, Kubernetes).


Join us at Kestra and be part of a dynamic team that is shaping the future of Orchestration. If you are passionate about integration technologies and enjoy solving complex problems, we would love to hear from you!