---
title: "Analytics Engineer (Remote)"
type: Sales
---

We are looking for an Analytics Engineer to help us take our internal analytics to the next level. We already have a working analytics setup, but we need someone to help us use it more effectively to drive business outcomes, evolve our data models, and empower our teams with actionable insights. 

### What you will do

- **Data Models:** Refine and evolve existing data models to ensure they align with business needs and support self-service analytics.
- **Dashboards & Reporting:** Build and enhance analytics dashboards in Metabase.
- **Stakeholder Enablement:** Train internal stakeholders to self-serve using our BI tools and data warehouse.
- **Pipeline Improvements:** Maintain and improve data pipelines orchestrated with Kestra.
- **Data Transformation:** Manage and optimize SQL transformations, with the flexibility to transition from Terraform to tools like dbt or SQLMesh based on your preferences.
- **Data Collection:** identify what data is missing to drive business outcomes and work together with our engineers to fill the gaps.
- **Data Analysis:** proactively explore the data we have to identify user behavior patterns and edge cases that could be of value to the Product, Marketing and Sales teams.
- **Data Quality Alerts**: ensure that we get notified about anomalies, such as specific fields being suddenly empty, to ensure high-quality data.

### What we’re looking for

- Autonomy and drive to lead cross-functional projects from start to finish.
- Ability to work independently with data — be curious to find patterns, proactively share insights with stakeholders, and drive business outcomes based on data.
- Strong SQL skills and experience with data warehouses (BigQuery preferred).
- Experience building and maintaining data pipelines.
- Familiarity with BI tools like Metabase and data storytelling skills for creating intuitive dashboards.
- Ability to work closely with stakeholders to understand their needs and translate them into technical solutions.
- Experience with data transformation tools (dbt, SQLMesh, or similar).

### Bonus points

- Familiarity with Kestra or similar orchestration tools.
- Experience with PostHog for product analytics.

### Our stack

- Big Query as our data warehouse
- Metabase as our BI tool
- PostHog for product analytics
- CloudQuery and Singer for data ingestion
- SQL, Python, Terraform, dbt and SQLMesh for data transformations.

### What we offer

- **Fully-remote position:** Work remotely with a culture that values results over hours.
- **Impact:** Own and shape our analytics setup to make a tangible difference in the company’s decision-making.
- **Growth:** Join a fast-paced startup where your work directly contributes to the company’s success.