---
title: "Developer Advocate (US)"
type: Marketing
---

We are looking for a Developer Advocate who loves to educate and engage with developers, and has a passion for open source communities.

### What you will do

- **Content:** Create and deliver engaging content, such as blog posts, technical product documentation, presentations, live streams, YouTube videos, etc.
- **Advocacy:** Advocate for Kestra products and Kestra users internally and externally
- **Events:** Attend, speak at, and sponsor in-person and/or virtual events across various developer communities. Be, or become, a thought leader in the software engineering and workflow orchestration domains.
- **Education:** Create fun and engaging content to teach our users and help them be successful with our products.
- **Community Building:** Actively engage with developers across various platforms including Slack, GitHub, LinkedIn, Twitter, Reddit, or StackOverflow.

### What we’re looking for

- 2+ years experience as a Developer Advocate, or a related role.
- Experience in at least two programming languages or frameworks (JS, TS, Java, Python, R, SQL, …)
- Excellent spoken and written English
- You love to teach developers how to solve problems with technology
- Entrepreneurial mindset
- Ability to work with a diverse, globally distributed team working across different time zones
- Ability to take the initiative and work independently.

### Bonus points

- Experience with workflow orchestration, ETL or automation tools 
- Prior experience as a Technical Writer, Software or Data Engineer with extensive knowledge of the engineering and data ecosystem, including cloud-native technologies leveraged by Kestra (incl. Docker, Kubernetes, Helm, Terraform, AWS, GCP, Azure, Postgres, Kafka, Elasticsearch, data lakes and data warehouses)
- Experience building demo apps and producing developer-centric content
- Experience speaking at community events and participating in online communities
- Experience contributing to and collaborating with open source projects.
