---
title: "Platform Engineer"
type: Engineering
---

We are looking for a Platform Engineer skilled in Google Cloud, Kubernetes, CI/CD, and GitHub Actions to help us provide the best SaaS offering, currently in development at Kestra.

You will work closely with our engineering team to design, architect, and implement the infrastructure powering our SaaS product, automate provisioning, configuration, and management of infrastructure, and assist in defining automated monitoring, deployment, and repair strategies to ensure the highest level of service to our customers.

## What you will do

- Design, Architect & Implement our SAAS offering for Kestra.
- Automate provisioning, configuration, and management of infrastructure.
- Assists in defining automated monitoring, deployment and repair strategies using a wide variety of Ops tools and monitoring platforms.
- Assists with the Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) processes.
- Diagnoses, isolates, and debugs application problems and performs problem resolution.
- Design and implement novel technical solutions that raises engineering productivity throughout your team.
- Relentlessly improve your team's DORA metrics including cycle time, deployment frequency, change failure rate, and mean time to recovery.

We are searching for someone:
- Fluent DevOps / Cloud, SAAS, IaC, ...
- Eager to learn (even with many years of experience).
- Curious.
- Being able to work in a startup culture where delivering features quickly to our customers is the most important.

## Our stack

- **Backend:** Java, Micronaut
- **Frontend:** Vue.js, Bootstrap
- **Datastore:** Kafka, Elasticsearch, PostgreSQL, MySQL
- **Infrastructure:** Docker, Kubernetes, Terraform (we also built our own providers)
- **Cloud:** GCP, AWS, Azure
- **Project:** GitHub (repository, actions, issues)

## What we're looking for

- 5+ years experience operating in a SRE/DevOps/Infrastructure role.
- Experience with one or more general purpose programming languages including but not limited to: Java, Python or Go.
- Experience with AWS, GCP, or Azure technologies. Google Cloud Platform knowledge is a plus as this is our primary cloud provider.
- Experience with containers and Kubernetes based applications running in the public cloud or in on premises data centers (you'll have both available to you).
- Comprehension of GitOps and managing Infrastructure as Code (IaC) such as Terraform, CloudFormation, Chef, or Ansible.
- Comfortable working on distributed systems, databases, networking, storage, and multi-tenant services, and Unix/Linux environments.
- Familiarity with Linux fundamentals and Bash scripting.
- Fluent in speaking and writing English.
- Experience working on a full remote company.
- Track record of learning new technologies and concepts quickly.
- Ability to work both autonomously and collaboratively, as needed.
- Strong written and verbal communications skills.

## Bonus points

- Work previously in the SaaS software industry.
- Already implement SOC2 or other security certification.
- Excellent analytical, decision-making, and problem-solving skills.
- Experience working on highly scalable cloud infrastructures.
- Open-source contributions with a variety of technologies.
- Startup or small company experience.
- Ability to work in an advisory capacity to identify key technical and business problems, develop and evaluate alternative solutions and make recommendations.
- The ability to understand problems by organizing information in a logical way. This includes anticipating problems for root causes and identifying alternative solutions.
