---
title: "Senior QA Engineer"
type: Engineering
---

We are seeking a talented Senior QA Engineer to ensure the quality and reliability of our products. As a Senior QA Engineer at Kestra, you will play a crucial role in maintaining the high standard of quality for our software products. You will be responsible for designing, implementing, and executing test strategies, as well as identifying and troubleshooting issues to ensure our products meet and exceed customer expectations. This role requires a deep understanding of QA methodologies, strong analytical skills, and a passion for delivering exceptional software.

## What you will do:

- **QA Strategy and Implementation:** Develop and implement comprehensive QA strategies, including manual and automated testing plans that cover front-end interfaces, back-end logic and Kestra flow end-to-end tests.
- **Automation Development:** Leverage your knowledge of QA automation tools and frameworks, enhancing our testing processes.
- **Integration Testing:** Conduct thorough integration testing, focusing on both the backend and front-end components of our solutions, to identify and rectify potential issues.
- **Cross-functional Teamwork:** Collaborate with our product and engineering teams, providing critical feedback from testing and ensuring that quality considerations are integrated throughout the development process.
- **Problem Solving:** Apply your QA expertise to diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve complex quality issues, ensuring our solutions are reliable and user-friendly.
- **Analysis and Resolution:** Identify and report software defects or performance issues. Collaborate with development teams to implement solutions or recommend improvements. Repeatedly validate fixes for known issues, confirming their resolution.
- **Process Improvement:** Continually seek and identify enhancements to the testing process to increase efficiency in quality assurance.
- **Issues Triage:** Handle triage of issues reported by the community and staff and continually cleanup outdated one.

## What we’re looking for:

- **Professional Experience:** At least 4+ years in quality assurance, with a strong foundation in testing methodologies and QA best practices.
- **QA Tooling Proficiency:** Experience with a wide range of QA tools and platforms for manual and automated testing. Knowledge of tools like playwright, Selenium, Jest, Cypress or JUnit is needed.
- **Quick Learner:** A passion for technology and a commitment to staying up-to-date with the latest trends and tools in QA and software development.
- **Autonomy:** While you will be part of a collaborative team, the role requires independence in managing tasks, time, and projects.

## Our Stack:
- **Backend:** Java, Micronaut
- **Frontend:** Vue.js
- **Datastore:** Kafka, Elasticsearch, PostgreSQL
- **Infrastructure:** Docker, Kubernetes
- **Cloud:** GCP, AWS, Azure
- **Tools:** GitHub, Notion, Selenium

## Bonus points:

- Experience with contributing to or the maintenance of an open-source project.
- Experience with many technologies, look at [our plugins list](/plugins/)
- Experience with performance testing and load testing tools (e.g., JMeter)
- Familiarity with continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines
- Knowledge of scripting languages such as Python or JavaScript

This opportunity offers the flexibility to engage in impactful projects while shaping the quality of our software solutions. If you are a QA Engineer with a passion for ensuring the delivery of high-quality software, we encourage you to apply.
