---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
title: kestra_namespace
editLink: false
description: |-
  Use this data source to access information about an existing Kestra Namespace.
  -> This resource is only available on the Enterprise Edition https://kestra.io/enterprise
---

# kestra_namespace (Data Source)

Use this data source to access information about an existing Kestra Namespace.

:::alert{type="info"}
This resource is only available on the [Enterprise Edition](https://kestra.io/enterprise)
:::

## Example usage

```hcl
data "kestra_namespace" "example" {
  namespace_id = "company.team"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `namespace_id` (String) The namespace.

### Read-Only

- `allowed_namespaces` (List of Object) The allowed namespaces. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--allowed_namespaces))
- `description` (String) The namespace friendly description.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `outputs_in_internal_storage` (Boolean) Whether outputs are stored in internal storage.
- `plugin_defaults` (String) The namespace plugin defaults.
- `secret_configuration` (Map of String) The secret configuration.
- `secret_isolation` (List of Object) Secret isolation configuration (same shape as storage_isolation). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--secret_isolation))
- `secret_read_only` (Boolean) Whether secrets are read-only in this namespace.
- `secret_type` (String) The secret type.
- `storage_configuration` (Map of String) The storage configuration.
- `storage_isolation` (List of Object) Storage isolation configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--storage_isolation))
- `storage_type` (String) The storage type.
- `tenant_id` (String) The tenant id.
- `variables` (String) The namespace variables.
- `worker_group` (List of Object) The worker group. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--worker_group))

<a id="nestedatt--allowed_namespaces"></a>
### Nested schema for `allowed_namespaces`

Read-Only:

- `namespace` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--secret_isolation"></a>
### Nested schema for `secret_isolation`

Read-Only:

- `denied_services` (List of String)
- `enabled` (Boolean)


<a id="nestedatt--storage_isolation"></a>
### Nested schema for `storage_isolation`

Read-Only:

- `denied_services` (List of String)
- `enabled` (Boolean)


<a id="nestedatt--worker_group"></a>
### Nested schema for `worker_group`

Read-Only:

- `fallback` (String)
- `key` (String)
