---
title: Deployment with Docker
---

The quickest way to install Kestra is to use *Docker Compose*. This will start a production-ready lightweight Kestra installation.

## Before you begin

Make sure you have already installed:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Launch Kestra

- Download the compose file [here](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/blob/develop/docker-compose.yml)
- Run `docker-compose up`
- Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser

This will start all the dependencies with a pre-configured Kestra that is connected to everything!

Kestra will start a *Standalone* server (all the different [servers](../../04.architecture/index.md) in one JVM).

This setup may not be enough for a typical **production** workloads, but is certainly sufficient to test on a local computer.

The [configuration](../01.configuration/index.md) will be done inside the `KESTRA_CONFIGURATION` environment variable of the Kestra container. You can update the environment variable inside the Docker compose file, or pass it via the Docker command line argument.
If you pass it via the Docker command line argument, don't forget to add existing configuration or nothing will work anymore.

## Docker Image

### Use official images

The official Kestra Docker images are available in [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/kestra/kestra) for both `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64` platforms.

We provide two image variants:

- `kestra/kestra:*`
- `kestra/kestra:*-full`

Both variants are based on the [`eclipse-temurin:17-jre`](https://hub.docker.com/_/eclipse-temurin) Docker image.

#### `kestra/kestra:*-full`

These images contain all the Kestra [plugins](/plugins/) and all the binaries for [Python tasks](/plugins/plugin-script-python/tasks/io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.commands) or [Node tasks](/plugins/plugin-script-node/tasks/io.kestra.plugin.scripts.node.commands).
Take care that these images will always contain the latest version of all plugins that can have some breaking changes.

#### `kestra/kestra:*`

These images:

- do not contain any Kestra [plugins](https://kestra.io/plugins).
- do not contain a lot of binaries to work with your [Shell tasks](/plugins/plugin-script-shell/tasks/io.kestra.plugin.scripts.shell.commands).
- do not contain binaries for [Python tasks](/plugins/plugin-script-python/tasks/io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.commands) or [Node tasks](/plugins/plugin-script-node/tasks/io.kestra.plugin.scripts.node.commands).

### Docker image tags

We provide three tags for each Docker image:

- `latest`: the latest default image along with its full variant `latest-full`.
- `v<release-version>`: official Kestra release with its full variant `v<release-version>-full`.
- `release`: the preview of the next release along with its full variant `release-full`.
- `develop`: an experimental image based on the `develop` branch that will change every day and contains all **unstable** features we are working on, along with its full variant `develop-full`.

### Create a new image with more binaries

If the base or full image does not contain binaries you need, you can create a new image from the Kestra base image and add the needed binaries.

The following `DockerFile` creates an image from the Kestra base image and adds the `golang` binary and Python packages:

```dockerfile
ARG IMAGE_TAG=latest
FROM kestra/kestra:$IMAGE_TAG

RUN mkdir -p /app/plugins && \
  apt-get update -y && \
  apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends golang && \
  apt-get install -y pip && \
  pip install pandas==2.0.3 requests==2.31.0 && \
  apt-get clean && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* /var/tmp/*
```

### Create a new image with more plugins

By default, the Kestra base Docker image does not contain any plugins, you can create a new image from the Kestra base image and add the needed plugins.

The following `Dockerfile` creates an image from the Kestra base image and adds the `plugin-notifications`, `storage-gcs` and `plugin-gcp` plugins using the command `kestra plugins install`:

```dockerfile
ARG IMAGE_TAG=latest
FROM kestra/kestra:$IMAGE_TAG

RUN /app/kestra plugins install \
  io.kestra.plugin:plugin-notifications:LATEST \
  io.kestra.storage:storage-gcs:LATEST \
  io.kestra.plugin:plugin-gcp:LATEST
```

The above Dockerfile installs plugins that have already been published to Maven. If you would like to build plugins from a specific Git repository, you can use the following approach:

```dockerfile
FROM openjdk:17-slim as stage-build
WORKDIR /
USER root

RUN apt-get update -y
RUN apt-get install git -y && \
    git clone https://github.com/kestra-io/plugin-aws.git

RUN cd plugin-aws && ./gradlew :shadowJar

FROM kestra/kestra:latest-full

# https://github.com/WASdev/ci.docker/issues/194#issuecomment-433519379
USER root

RUN mkdir -p /app/plugins && \
  apt-get update -y && \
  apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends golang && \
  apt-get install -y pip && \
  pip install pandas==2.0.3 requests==2.31.0 && \
  apt-get clean && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* /var/tmp/*

RUN rm -rf /app/plugins/plugin-aws-*.jar
COPY --from=stage-build /plugin-aws/build/libs/plugin-aws-*.jar /app/plugins
```

This multi-stage Docker build allows you to overwrite a plugin that has already been installed. In this example, the AWS plugin is by default already included in the `kestra/kestra:latest-full` image. However, it's overwritten by a plugin built in the first Docker build stage.
