---
title: Filter
icon: /docs/icons/expression.svg
rightBar: false
editLink: false
---

Filters can be used in expressions to perform some transformations on variables such as formatting a date, converting a string to uppercase, or joining a list of strings.

Filters are separated from the variable name by a pipe symbol `|`. Multiple filters can be chained together so that the output of one filter is applied to the next one.

The following example turns the name into title case:
```twig
{{ name | title }}
```

Filters that accept arguments have parentheses around the arguments. This example joins the elements of a list into a string, with list elements separated by commas:
```twig
{{ list | join(', ') }}
```

To apply a filter on a section of code, wrap it with the `filter` tag:

```twig
{% filter lower | title %}
	hello<br>
{% endfilter %}
```

Each section below represents a built-in filter.

- [abbreviate](#abbreviate)
- [abs](#abs)
- [base64decode](#base64decode)
- [base64encode](#base64encode)
- [capitalize](#capitalize)
- [chunk](#chunk)
- [className](#classname)
- [date](#date)
- [dateAdd](#dateadd)
- [default](#default)
- [first](#first)
- [join](#join)
- [jq](#jq)
- [json](#json)
- [keys](#keys)
- [last](#last)
- [lower](#lower)
- [merge](#merge)
- [number](#number)
- [numberFormat](#numberformat)
- [replace](#replace)
- [reverse](#reverse)
- [rsort](#rsort)
- [sha256](#sha256)
- [slice](#slice)
- [slugify](#slugify)
- [sort](#sort)
- [split](#split)
- [substringAfter](#substringafter)
- [substringAfterLast](#substringafterlast)
- [substringBefore](#substringbefore)
- [substringBeforeLast](#substringbeforelast)
- [timestamp](#timestamp)
- [timestampMicro](#timestampmicro)
- [timestampNano](#timestampnano)
- [title](#title)
- [trim](#trim)
- [upper](#upper)
- [urldecode](#urldecode)
- [urlencode](#urlencode)

---

## abbreviate

The `abbreviate` filter will abbreviate a string using an ellipsis. It takes one argument which is the max
width of the desired output including the length of the ellipsis.

```twig
{{ "this is a long sentence." | abbreviate(7) }}
```

The above example will output the following:

```twig
this...
```

**Arguments**
- length

---

## abs

The `abs` filter is used to obtain the absolute value.

```twig
{{ -7 | abs }}

{# output: 7 #}
```

---

## base64decode

The `base64decode` filter takes the given input, Base64-decodes it, if possible, and returns the byte array converted to UTF-8 String.
Applying the filter on an incorrect base64-encoded string will throw an exception.

```twig
{{ "dGVzdA==" | base64decode }}
```

The above example will output the following:

```
test
```

---

## base64encode

The `base64encode` filter takes the given input, converts it to an UTF-8 String (`.toString()`) and Base64-encodes it.

```twig
{{ "test" | base64encode }}
```

The above example will output the following:

```
dGVzdA==
```
---

## capitalize

The `capitalize` filter will capitalize the first letter of the string.
```twig
{{ "article title" | capitalize }}
```

The above example will output the following:

```twig
Article title
```

See also:
- [title](#title)

---

## chunk

The `chunk` filter returns partitions of `size` from a list.
```twig
{{ [[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9]] | chunk(2) }}
{# results in: '[[1,2],[3,4],[5,6],[7,8],[9]]' #}
```

**Arguments**
- `size`: the size of the chunk

---

## className

The `className` filter return a string with the current class name.


```twig
{{ "12.3" | number | className }}
{# will output: java.lang.Float #}
```

---

## date

The `date` filter formats a date in a variety of formats. It can handle old-school `java.util.Date`,
Java 8 `java.time` constructs like `OffsetDateTime` and timestamps in milliseconds from the epoch.
The filter will construct a `java.text.SimpleDateFormat` or `java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter` using the provided
pattern and then use this newly created format to format the provided date object. If you don't provide a pattern,
either `DateTimeFormatter.ISO_DATE_TIME` or `yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssZ` will be used.

```twig
{{ user.birthday | date("yyyy-MM-dd") }}
```

An alternative way to use this filter is to use it on a string but then provide two arguments:
the first is the desired pattern for the output, and the second is the existing format used to parse the
input string into a `java.util.Date` object.

```twig
{{ "July 24, 2001" | date("yyyy-MM-dd", existingFormat="MMMM dd, yyyy") }}
```

The above example will output the following:
```twig
2001-07-24
```

**Time zones**

If the provided date has time zone info (e.g. `OffsetDateTime`) then it will be used. If the provided date has no
time zone info, by default the system time zone will be used. If you need to use a specific
time zone then you can pass in a `timeZone` parameter any string that's understood by `ZoneId` / `ZoneInfo`:
```twig
{# the timeZone parameter will be ignored #}
{{ someOffsetDateTime | date("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssX", timeZone="UTC") }}
{# the provided time zone will override the system default #}
{{ someInstant | date("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssX", timeZone="Pacific/Funafuti") }}
```

**format & existingFormat**

Format can be:
- [DateTimeFormatter](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html) format
- `iso` = `yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSSSSXXX`
- `iso_sec` = `yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssXXX`
- `sql` = `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSSSSS`
- `sql_seq` = `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss`
- `iso_date_time`
- `iso_date`
- `iso_time`
- `iso_local_date`
- `iso_instant`
- `iso_local_date_time`
- `iso_local_time`
- `iso_offset_time`
- `iso_ordinal_date`
- `iso_week_date`
- `iso_zoned_date_time`
- `rfc_1123_date_time`

**Arguments**
- `format`: the output format
- `existingFormat`: the input format if the based variable is a string
- `timeZone`:  the timezone to use
- `locale`: the locale to use

---

## dateAdd

The `dateAdd` filter add some unit and formats a date with the same behavior than [date](#date) filters.

```twig
{{ user.birthday | dateAdd(-1, 'DAYS') }}
```

**Arguments**
- amount: an integer value positive or negative
- unit:
  - `NANOS`
  - `MICROS`
  - `MILLIS`
  - `SECONDS`
  - `MINUTES`
  - `HOURS`
  - `HALF_DAYS`
  - `DAYS`
  - `WEEKS`
  - `MONTHS`
  - `YEARS`
  - `DECADES`
  - `CENTURIES`
  - `MILLENNIA`
  - `ERAS`
- format: see [date](#date)
- existingFormat [date](#date)
- timeZone [date](#date)
- locale [date](#date)

---

## default

The `default` filter will render a default value if and only if the object being filtered is empty.
A variable is empty if it is null, an empty string, an empty collection, or an empty map.
```twig
{{ user.phoneNumber | default("No phone number") }}
```
In the following example, if `foo`, `bar`, or `baz` are null the output will become an empty string which is a perfect use case for the default filter:
```twig
{{ foo.bar.baz | default("No baz") }}
```
Note that the default filter will suppress any `AttributeNotFoundException` exceptions that will usually be thrown.

**Arguments**
- default

---

## first

The `first` filter will return the first item of a collection, or the first letter of a string.

```twig
{{ users | first }}
{# will output the first item in the collection named 'users' #}

{{ 'Mitch' | first }}
{# will output 'M' #}
```

---

## join

The `join` filter will concatenate all items of a collection into a string. An optional argument can be given
to be used as the separator between items.

```twig
{#
    List<String> names = new ArrayList<>();
    names.add("Alex");
    names.add("Joe");
    names.add("Bob");
#}
{{ names | join(',') }}
{# will output: Alex,Joe,Bob #}
```

**Arguments**
- separator

---

## jq

The `jq` filter apply a [JQ expression](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to a variables. The filter always return an array of result and will be formatted as json. You can use the filter [first](#first) in order to return the first (and potentially the only) result of the jq filter.

```twig
{{ [1, 2, 3] | jq('.')  }}
{# results in: '[1, 2, 3]' #}

{{ [1, 2, 3] | jq('.[0]') | first }}
{# results in: '1' #}
```


Another example, if the current context is:
```json
{
  "outputs": {
    "task1": {
      "value": 1,
      "text": "awesome1"
    },
    "task2": {
      "value": 2,
      "text": "awesome2"
    }
  }
}
```

```twig
{{ outputs | jq('.task1.value') | first }}
```

the output will be `1`.


**Arguments**
- `expression`: the jq expression to apply

---

## json

The `json` filter will convert any variable to json string.

```twig
{{ [1, 2, 3] | json  }}
{# results in: '[1, 2, 3]' #}

{{ true | json }}
{# results in: 'true' #}

{{ "foo" | json }}
{# results in: '"foo"' #}
```

---

## keys

The `keys` filter will return the keys from a collection, or list of index of an array.
```twig
{{ {'this': 'foo', 'that': 'bar'} | keys }}
{# will output the key from this map '['this', 'that']' #}


{{ [0, 1, 3] | keys }}
{# will output the key from this array '[0, 1, 2]' #}

```

---

## last

The `last` filter will return the last item of a collection, or the last letter of a string.
```twig
{{ users | last }}
{# will output the last item in the collection named 'users' #}

{{ 'Mitch' | last }}
{# will output 'h' #}
```## length

The `length` filter returns the number of items of collection, map or the length of a string:

```twig
{% if users|length > 10 %}
    ...
{% endif %}
```

---

## lower

The `lower` filter makes an entire string lower case.
```twig
{{ "THIS IS A LOUD SENTENCE" | lower }}
```
The above example will output the following:
```twig
this is a loud sentence
```

---

## merge

The `merge` filter merge items of type Map, List or Array:
```twig
{{ [1, 2] | merge([3, 4]) }}
```

---

## number

The `number` filter return a parsed number from a string. If no type is passed, we try to infer the appropriate type.


```twig
{{ "12.3" | number | className }}
{# will output: java.lang.Float #}

{{ "9223372036854775807" | number('BIGDECIMAL') | className }}
{# will output: java.math.BigDecimal #}
```

**Arguments**
- type:
  - `INT`
  - `FLOAT`
  - `LONG`
  - `DOUBLE`
  - `BIGDECIMAL`
  - `BIGINTEGER`

---

## numberFormat

The `numberFormat` filter is used to format a decimal number. Behind the scenes it uses `java.text.DecimalFormat`.
```twig
{{ 3.141592653 | numberFormat("#.##") }}
```
The above example will output the following:
```twig
3.14
```

**Arguments**
- format

---

## replace

The `replace` filter formats a given string by replacing the placeholders (placeholders are free-form) or using regular expression:
```twig
{{ "I like %this% and %that%." | replace({'%this%': foo, '%that%': "bar"}) }}
```

```twig
{{ 'aa1bb2cc3dd4ee5' | replace({'(\d)': '-$1-'}, regexp=true) }}
```

**Arguments**
- `replace_pairs`: an object with key the search string and value the replace string
- `regexp`: use regexp for search and replace pattern (default is `false`)

---

## reverse

The `reverse` filter reverses a List:
```twig
{% for user in users | reverse %} {{ user }} {% endfor %}
```

---

## rsort

The `rsort` filter will sort a list in reversed order. The items of the list must implement `Comparable`.
```twig
{% for user in users | rsort %}
	{{ user.name }}
{% endfor %}
```

---

## sha256

The `sha256` filter returns the SHA-256 hash of the given UTF-8 String.

```twig
{{ "test" | sha256 }}
```
The above example will output the following:
```
9f86d081884c7d659a2feaa0c55ad015a3bf4f1b2b0b822cd15d6c15b0f00a08
```

---

## slice

The `slice` filter returns a portion of a list, array, or string.
```twig
{{ ['apple', 'peach', 'pear', 'banana'] | slice(1,3) }}
{# results in: [peach, pear] #}


{{ 'Mitchell' | slice(1,3) }}
{# results in: 'it' #}
```

**Arguments**
- `fromIndex`: 0-based and inclusive
- `toIndex`: 0-based and exclusive

---

## slugify

The `slugify` filter removes non-word characters (alphanumerics and underscores) and converts spaces to hyphen. Also strips leading and trailing whitespace.

```twig
{{ "Joel is a slug" | slugify }}
{# will output 'joel-is-a-slug' #}
```

---

## sort

The `sort` filter will sort a list. The items of the list must implement `Comparable`.
```twig
{% for user in users | sort %}
	{{ user.name }}
{% endfor %}
```

---

## split

The `split` filter splits a string by the given delimiter and returns a list of strings.
```twig
{% set foo = "one,two,three" | split(',') %}
{# foo contains ['one', 'two', 'three'] #}
```

You can also pass a limit argument:
- If `limit` is positive, then the pattern will be applied at most n - 1 times, the array's length will be no greater than n, and the array's last entry will contain all input beyond the last matched delimiter;
- If `limit` is negative, then the pattern will be applied as many times as possible and the array can have any length;
- If `limit` is zero, then the pattern will be applied as many times as possible, the array can have any length, and trailing empty strings will be discarded;

```twig
{% set foo = "one,two,three,four,five" | split(',', 3) %}
{# foo contains ['one', 'two', 'three,four,five'] #}
```

**Arguments**
- delimiter: The delimiter
- limit: The limit argument

---

## substringAfter

The `substringAfter` filter returns the  substring before the first occurrence of a separator. The separator is not returned.
```twig
{{ 'a.b.c' | substringAfter('.') }}
{# results in: 'b.c' #}
```

**Arguments**
- `separator`: the String to search for

---

## substringAfterLast

The `substringAfterLast` filter returns the substring after the last occurrence of a separator. The separator is not returned.
```twig
{{ 'a.b.c' | substringAfterLast('.') }}
{# results in: 'c' #}
```

**Arguments**
- `separator`: the String to search for

---

## substringBefore

The `substringBefore` filter returns the  substring before the first occurrence of a separator. The separator is not returned.
```twig
{{ 'a.b.c' | substringBefore('.') }}
{# results in: 'a' #}
```

**Arguments**
- `separator`: the String to search for

---

## substringBeforeLast

The `substringBeforeLast` filter returns the substring before the last occurrence of a separator. The separator is not returned.
```twig
{{ 'a.b.c' | substringBeforeLast('.') }}
{# results in: 'a.b' #}
```

**Arguments**
- `separator`: the String to search for

---

## timestamp

The `timestamp` filter will convert a date to a unix timestamps in second. You can convert a string with `existingFormat` and change `timeZone` with same arguments from [date](#date) filter.


```twig
{{ now() | timestamp(timeZone="Europe/Paris") }}
```

**Arguments**
- existingFormat
- timeZone

---

## timestampMicro

The `timestampMicro` filter will convert a date to a unix timestamps in microsecond. You can convert a string with `existingFormat` and change `timeZone` with same arguments from [date](#date) filter.


```twig
{{ now() | timestampMicro(timeZone="Europe/Paris") }}
```

**Arguments**
- existingFormat
- timeZone

---

## timestampNano

The `timestampNano` filter will convert a date to a unix timestamps in nanosecond. You can convert a string with `existingFormat` and change `timeZone` with same arguments from [date](#date) filter.


```twig
{{ now() | timestampNano(timeZone="Europe/Paris") }}
```

**Arguments**
- existingFormat
- timeZone

---

## title

The `title` filter will capitalize the first letter of each word.
```twig
{{ "article title" | title }}
```
The above example will output the following:
```twig
Article Title
```

See also:
- [capitalize](#capitalize)

---

## trim

The `trim` filter is used to trim whitespace off the beginning and end of a string.
```twig
{{ "    This text has too much whitespace.    " | trim }}
```
The above example will output the following:
```twig
This text has too much whitespace.
```

---

## upper

The `upper` filter makes an entire string upper case.

```twig
{{ "this is a quiet sentence." | upper }}
```
The above example will output the following:
```twig
THIS IS A QUIET SENTENCE.
```

---

## urldecode

The `urlencode` translates a string into `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` format using the "UTF-8" encoding scheme.

```twig
{{ "The+string+%C3%BC%40foo-bar" | urldecode }}
```

The above example will output the following:
```twig
The string ü@foo-bar
```

---

## urlencode

The `urlencode` translates a string into `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` format using the "UTF-8" encoding scheme.

```twig
{{ "The string ü@foo-bar" | urlencode }}
```

The above example will output the following:
```twig
The+string+%C3%BC%40foo-bar
```