---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
title: kestra_tenant
editLink: false
description: |-
  Manages a Kestra Tenant.
  -> This resource is only available on the Enterprise Edition https://kestra.io/enterprise
---

# kestra_tenant (Resource)

Manages a Kestra Tenant.

:::alert{type="info"}
This resource is only available on the [Enterprise Edition](https://kestra.io/enterprise)
:::

## Example usage

```hcl
resource "kestra_tenant" "example" {
  tenant_id = "my-tenant"
  name      = "My Tenant"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `tenant_id` (String) The tenant id.

### Optional

- `name` (String) The tenant name.
- `outputs_in_internal_storage` (Boolean) Whether outputs are stored in internal storage.
- `require_existing_namespace` (Boolean) Whether tenant requires an existing namespace.
- `secret_configuration` (Map of String) The secret configuration.
- `secret_isolation` (Block List, Max: 1) Secret isolation configuration (same shape as storage_isolation). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--secret_isolation))
- `secret_read_only` (Boolean) Whether secrets are read-only in this tenant.
- `secret_type` (String) The secret type.
- `storage_configuration` (Map of String) The storage configuration.
- `storage_isolation` (Block List, Max: 1) Storage isolation configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--storage_isolation))
- `storage_type` (String) The storage type.
- `worker_group` (Block List, Max: 1) The worker group. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--worker_group))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--secret_isolation"></a>
### Nested schema for `secret_isolation`

Optional:

- `denied_services` (List of String) List of denied services for secret isolation.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable secret isolation.


<a id="nestedblock--storage_isolation"></a>
### Nested schema for `storage_isolation`

Optional:

- `denied_services` (List of String) List of denied services for isolation.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable storage isolation.


<a id="nestedblock--worker_group"></a>
### Nested schema for `worker_group`

Required:

- `fallback` (String) The fallback strategy.
- `key` (String) The worker group key.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import kestra_tenant.example {{tenant_id}}
```
