---
title: Single Sign-On (SSO)
icon: /docs/icons/admin.svg
editions: ["EE"]
---

How to enable and setup SSO in your Kestra Enterprise instance.


Single Sign-On (SSO) is an authentication process that allows users to access multiple applications with one set of login credentials (e.g. Sign in with Google). Kestra supports SSO using the OpenID Connect (OIDC) protocol, which is a simple identity layer built on top of the OAuth 2.0 protocol.

## Configuring Single Sign-On with OpenID Connect (OIDC)

To implement OIDC SSO, you'll need to configure the Micronaut framework that Kestra uses under the hood. Start by enabling OIDC in your `yaml` configuration file as follows:

```yaml
micronaut:
  security:
    oauth2:
      enabled: true
      clients:
        oidc-provider:
          client-id: "{{ clientId }}"
          client-secret: "{{ clientSecret }}"
          openid:
            issuer: "{{ issuerUrl }}"
```

Replace `oidc-provider` with your chosen provider's name, `{{ clientId }}` with your client ID, `{{ clientSecret }}` with your client secret, and `{{ issuerUrl }}` with your issuer URL.

For more configuration details, refer to the [Micronaut OIDC configuration guide](https://micronaut-projects.github.io/micronaut-security/latest/guide/#openid-configuration).

## Using Google as an OIDC SSO Provider

For Google authentication, configure your `yaml` file in the following way:

```yaml
micronaut:
  security:
    oauth2:
      enabled: true
      clients:
        google:
          client-id: "{{ clientId }}"
          client-secret: "{{ clientSecret }}"
          openid:
            issuer: 'https://accounts.google.com'
```

For getting your `client-id` and `client-secret`, check out the [Google Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/identity-platform/docs/web/oidc).

## Using Microsoft as an OIDC SSO Provider

To use Microsoft authentication, follow these steps:

```yaml
micronaut:
  security:
    oauth2:
      enabled: true
      clients:
        microsoft:
          client-id: "{{ clientId }}"
          client-secret: "{{ clientSecret }}"
          openid:
            issuer: 'https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/v2.0/'
```

For getting your `client-id` and `client-secret`, check out the [Microsoft Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/v2-protocols-oidc)

## Using Microsoft Entra ID as an OIDC SSO Provider

### Create an Enterprise Application

1. Visit the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
2. Select `Microsoft Entra ID`.
3. Navigate to `App registrations`.
4. Click on `New registration` and provide the necessary details:
- Enter a name for your application.
- Set "Supported account types" (e.g., "Default Directory only - Single tenant").
- Under "Redirect URI", select "Web" and enter `https://{{ url }}/oauth/callback/microsoft` (make sure to use `https` and the actual URL of your webserver).

### Generate Client Secret

1. Go to `Certificates & secrets`.
2. Under `Client secrets`, click on `New client secret`.
3. Copy the generated secret so you can use it in the `{{ clientSecret }}` field in your configuration.

### Kestra Configuration

- Copy the "Application (client) ID" from the `Overview` section into `{{ clientId }}` in your configuration.
- In the `Endpoints` section, find the "OpenID Connect metadata document" URL, remove the `.well-known/openid-configuration` part, and use this as `{{ issuerUrl }}`.

The final URL should look like `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{{ directory }}/v2.0/`.

Here's an example Microsoft OIDC configuration:

```yaml
micronaut:
  security:
    oauth2:
      enabled: true
      clients:
        microsoft:
          client-id: "{{ clientId }}"
          client-secret: "{{ clientSecret }}"
          openid:
            issuer: '{{ issuerUrl }}'
```

With these settings, Kestra is now configured to use OIDC for SSO with your chosen providers. Ensure that all placeholders are replaced with actual values obtained from the provider's configuration process.


## Using KeyCloak as an OICD SSO Provider

In your KeyCloak realm be to sure to have a client with "Client Authentication" property set to "On" and "Standard flow" checked.

Set the "Valid redirect URI" property to `https://{{ yourKestraServerURL }}/oauth/callback/keycloak`. 

Then, set the "Valid post logout redirect URIs" property to `https://{{ yourKestraServerURL }}/logout`.

Here's an example of KeyCloak OIDC configuration for Kestra:

```yaml
micronaut:
  security:
    oauth2:
      enabled: true
      clients:
        keycloak:
          client-id: "{{ clientId }}"
          client-secret: "{{ clientSecret}}"
          openid:
            issuer: "https://{{ keyCloakServer }}/auth/realms/{{yourRealm}}"
    endpoints:
      logout:
        get-allowed: true
```

For more configuration details, refer to the [Keycloak OIDC configuration guide](https://guides.micronaut.io/latest/micronaut-oauth2-keycloak-gradle-java.html).