---
title: Kestra Server CLI
icon: /docs/icons/admin.svg
---

This page describes the different server commands available in Kestra.

Kestra leverages five different server components. The `kestra server` command allows to start them individually, or run an all-inclusive standalone server.

## Separate server components

### Executor

`./kestra server executor`

**Options:**

* `--skip-executions`: the list of execution identifiers to skip. Use it only for troubleshooting e.g. when an execution cannot be processed by Kestra.

### Indexer

`./kestra server indexer`

### Scheduler

`./kestra server scheduler`

### Worker

`./kestra server worker`

**Options:**

* `-t` or `--thread`: the number of threads that can handle tasks at the same time. By default, the worker will start 2 threads per CPU core available.
* `-g` or `--worker-group`: the key of the worker group if using [Worker Group (EE)](/docs/enterprise/worker-group).

### Webserver

`./kestra server webserver`

## Kestra standalone, all server components in one process

`./kestra server standalone`

This server is a special server, since it will contain all the server components in one JVM. This works well for development or small-sized environments.

**Options:**

* `-f` or `--flow-path`: the path to a directory with YAML flow files. These files will be loaded to the repository at startup.
* `--worker-thread`: the number of worker threads. By default, the embedded worker will start 3 threads or a single thread per CPU core when more than 3 CPU cores are available.
* `--skip-executions`: the list of execution identifiers to skip. Use it only for troubleshooting e.g. when an execution cannot be processed by Kestra.

## Kestra local, development server with no dependencies

`./kestra server local`

This server is a local development server. It will contain all server components in one JVM, and use a local database (H2), and a local storage - perfect to start a development server. Data will be saved in the `data` directory within the current working directory.

**Options:**

* `-f` or `--flow-path`: the path to a directory with YAML flow files. These files will be loaded to the repository at startup.
* `--worker-thread`: the number of worker threads. By default, the embedded worker will start 3 threads or a single thread per CPU core when more than 3 CPU cores are available.

## Options for all server commands

### Log Level

Log level can be changed with two options:

* `-l` or `--log-level`: possible values: `[TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR]`, default: `INFO`
* `-v` or `--verbose`: for `DEBUG`, `-vv` for `TRACE`

These options affect global log levels for all flows only.

### Internal Log

`--internal-log`: Kestra hides internal logs by default. Use this option to enable these logs.

::alert{type="warning"}
This option enables logs of very high verbosity.
::

### Configuration Files

`-c` or `--config`: You can change the location of Kestra [configuration](/docs/configuration-guide) files, the default is `~/.kestra/config.yml`.

### Plugins directory

`-p` or `--plugins`: Path to the plugins directory. The default is the `plugins` directory located in the same directory as the Kestra executable.

### Server port

`--port`: The server port, the default is `8080`.
