---
title: Inline Scripts in Docker
icon: /docs/icons/dev.svg
---

Writing code directly inside your task.

To get started with a Script task, paste your custom script inline in your YAML workflow definition along with any other configuration.

```yaml
id: api_json_to_mongodb
namespace: company.team
tasks:
  - id: extract
    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.Script
    containerImage: python:3.11-slim
    beforeCommands:
      - pip install requests kestra > /dev/null
    warningOnStdErr: false
    outputFiles:
      - "*.json"
    script: |
      import requests
      import json
      from kestra import Kestra

      response = requests.get("https://api.github.com")
      data = response.json()

      with open("output.json", "w") as output_file:
          json.dump(data, output_file)

      Kestra.outputs({"status": response.status_code})

  - id: load
    type: io.kestra.plugin.mongodb.Load
    connection:
      uri: mongodb://host.docker.internal:27017/
    database: local
    collection: github
    from: "{{ outputs.extract.outputFiles['output.json'] }}"
    description: "you can start MongoDB using: docker run -d mongo"
```

The example above uses a Python script added as a multiline string into the `script` property. The script fetches data from an API and stores it as a JSON file in Kestra's internal storage using the `outputFiles` property. The `Kestra.outputs` method captures additional output variables, such as the API response status code.

The `image` argument of the `docker` property specifies (*optionally*) the Docker image to use for the script. If you don't specify an image, Kestra uses the default image for the language you are using. In the above example, we use the `python:3.11-slim` image.

You can also *optionally* use the `beforeCommands` property to install libraries used in your inline script. Above, the command `pip install requests kestra` installs `pip` packages not available in the base image `python:3.11-slim`.

The `warningOnStdErr` property specifies whether to set the task run to a WARNING status if the script writes to the standard error stream. By default, this property is set to `true`. Note, that a script that generates an error always sets the task run to a FAILED status, regardless of the value of this property.