---
title: Google Cloud Run Task Runner
icon: /docs/icons/dev.svg
version: ">= 0.18.0"
editions: ["EE"]
---

Run tasks as containers on Google Cloud Run.

## How does Google Cloud Run task runner work

To use `inputFiles`, `outputFiles` or `namespaceFiles` properties, make sure to set the `bucket` property. The bucket serves as an intermediary storage layer for the task runner. Input and namespace files will be uploaded to the cloud storage bucket before the task run. Similarly, the task runner will store `outputFiles` in this bucket during the task run. In the end, the task runner will make those files available for download and preview from the UI by sending them to internal storage. To make it easier to track where all files are stored, the task runner will generate a folder for each task run. You can access that folder using the `{{bucketPath}}` Pebble expression or the `BUCKET_PATH` environment variable.

Due to the ephemeral nature of Cloud Run, the task runner will not run the task in the working directory but in the root directory. Therefore, you have to use the `{{ workingDir }}` Pebble expression or the `WORKING_DIR` environment variable to access the `inputFiles` and `namespaceFiles` from the task's working directory.

::alert{type="warning"}
Note about termination of compute resources:
- when the Kestra Worker running this task is terminated, the Cloud Run Job will still run until completion — this is intended to avoid your tasks being interrupted due to Worker crashes.
- when you manually kill the execution from the UI, the Cloud Run Job will be terminated — this is intended to avoid unnecessary costs when you explicitly stop the execution (_Note that this behavior is a work-in-progress, you can track the state [here on GitHub](https://github.com/kestra-io/plugin-gcp/issues/381)_).
::


## A full flow example

The following example runs a simple Shell command in a Cloud Run container:

```yaml
id: new-shell
namespace: company.team

variables:
  projectId: myProjectId
  region: eu-west-2

tasks:
  - id: shell
    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.shell.Commands
    taskRunner:
      type: io.kestra.plugin.ee.gcp.runner.CloudRun
      projectId: "{{ vars.projectId }}"
      region: "{{ vars.region }}"
      serviceAccount: "{{ secret('GOOGLE_SA') }}"
    commands:
      - echo "Hello World"
```

The following example runs a Shell command in a Cloud Run container and passes input files to the task:

```yaml
id: new-shell-with-file
namespace: company.team

variables:
  projectId: myProjectId
  region: eu-west-2

inputs:
  - id: file
    type: FILE

tasks:
  - id: shell
    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.shell.Commands
    inputFiles:
      data.txt: "{{inputs.file}}"
    outputFiles:
      - out.txt
    containerImage: centos
    taskRunner:
      type: io.kestra.plugin.ee.gcp.runner.CloudRun
      projectId: "{{ vars.projectId }}"
      region: "{{ vars.region }}"
      bucket: "{{ vars.bucket }}"
      serviceAccount: "{{ secret('GOOGLE_SA') }}"
    commands:
      - cp {{ workingDir }}/data.txt {{ workingDir }}/out.txt
```

::alert{type="info"}
For a full list of properties available in the CloudRun task runner, check the [GCP plugin documentation](/plugins/plugin-gcp/task-runners/runner/io.kestra.plugin.ee.gcp.runner.CloudRun) or explore the same in the built-in Code Editor in the Kestra UI.
::

## How to Run Tasks on Google Cloud Run

### Before you begin

Before you start, you need to have the following:
1. A Google Cloud account.
2. A Kestra instance in a version 0.16.0 or later with Google credentials stored as [secrets](../../04.secret.md) or environment variables within the Kestra instance.

## Configuration

The `containerImage` property is required because Cloud Run executes tasks as containers. You can use any image from a public or private registry.

Your service account needs to have the following IAM roles attached to use the service:
- Cloud Run Developer
- Logs Viewer
- Storage Admin (to upload files to GCS and download files from GCS)
- Owner/Editor of the Compute Engine default service account (to be able to provision compute resources for the Cloud Run container)

