---
title: Enterprise Edition Configuration
icon: /docs/icons/kestra.svg
---

This section describes how to configure Kestra Enterprise Edition.

Kestra Enterprise Edition offers many enhancements over the Open Source Edition, adding authentication, security, audit logs, and more. Here are some of the features available in the Enterprise Edition:
- [Multi-Tenancy](../05.enterprise/03.tenants.md)
- [Audit Logs](../05.enterprise/06.audit-logs.md)
- [Authentication](../05.enterprise/authentication.md)
- [SSO](../05.enterprise/05.sso.md)
- [RBAC](../05.enterprise/rbac.md)
- [Secrets Manager](../05.enterprise/secrets-manager.md)
- [Namespace Management](../05.enterprise/07.namespace-management.md)
- [Worker Groups](../05.enterprise/worker-group.md)
- [Worker Isolation](../05.enterprise/worker-isolation.md)

## Enterprise Edition license

To use Kestra Enterprise Edition, you will need a valid license. Our sales team should have provided this license to you; if it's not the case, please reach out to them at [sales@kestra.io](mailto:sales@kstra.io).

The license is set up using two configuration properties: the `id` and the `key`.

- `kestra.ee.license.id`: should hold the license identifier.
- `kestra.ee.license.key`: should hold the license key.

When you launch Kestra Enterprise Edition, it will check the license and display the validation step in the log.

## SuperAdmin User from configuration

The current most powerful user in Kestra is the [SuperAdmin](../05.enterprise/rbac.md#super-admin)

For setup facilities, you can create a SuperAdmin user from the configuration file.

The super-admin required three properties :
* `kestra.security.super-admin.username`: the username of the super-admin
* `kestra.security.super-admin.password`: the password of the super-admin
* `kestra.security.super-admin.tenantAdminAccess`: a list of tenants that the super-admin can access
  * This property can be omit if you do not use multitenancy
  * If a Tenant does not exists, it will be created
  * At each startup, this user is checked and if the list of access has been modified new accesses can be created, but none will be removed


::alert{type="warning"}
The password should never be stored in clear text in the configuration file.
You should use an environment variable.
::

```yaml
kestra:
  security:
    super-admin:
      username: <username>
      password: <password>
      tenantAdminAccess:
        - <optional>
```