---
title: Operator
icon: /docs/icons/expression.svg
---

Operators are used to perform logical operations within templated expressions such as comparing values and performing arithmetic operations.

## Comparison operators

Pebble provides the following comparison operators: `==`, `!=`, `<`, `>`, `<=`, `>=`. All of them except for `==`
are equivalent to their Java counterparts. The `==` operator uses `Java.util.Objects.equals(a, b)` behind the
scenes to perform null safe value comparisons.

> `equals` is an alias for `==`

```twig
{% if user.name equals "Mitchell" %}
	...
{% endif %}
```

## concat

The `concat` operator can be used to concatenate 2 strings:

```twig
{{ "apple" ~ "pear" ~ "banana" }}
{# results in: 'applepearbanana' #}
```

## contains

The `contains` operator can be used to determine if a collection, map, or array contains a particular item.
```twig
{% if ["apple", "pear", "banana"] contains "apple" %}
	...
{% endif %}
```

When using maps, the contains operator checks for an existing key.

```twig
{% if {"apple":"red", "banana":"yellow"} contains "banana" %}
	...
{% endif %}
```

The operator can be used to look for multiple items at once:

```twig
{% if ["apple", "pear", "banana", "peach"] contains ["apple", "peach"] %}
	...
{% endif %}
```

## is

The `is` operator will apply a test to a variable which will return a boolean.

```twig
{% if 2 is even %}
	...
{% endif %}
```
The result can be negated using the `not` operator:

```twig
{% if 3 is not even %}
	...
{% endif %}
```

## logic

The `and` operator and the `or` operator are available to join boolean expressions.

```twig
{% if 2 is even and 3 is odd %}
	...
{% endif %}
```
The `not` operator is available to negate a boolean expression.
```twig
{% if 3 is not even %}
	...
{% endif %}
```

Parenthesis can be used to group expressions to ensure a desired precedence.

```twig
{% if (3 is not even) and (2 is odd or 3 is even) %}
	...
{% endif %}
```

## math

All the regular math operators are available for use. Order of operations applies.
```twig
{{ 2 + 2 / ( 10 % 3 ) * (8 - 1) }}
```

The following operators are supported:

- `+`: Adds two numbers together (the operands are cast to numbers). `{{
1 + 1 }}` is 2.
- `-`: Subtracts the second number from the first one. `{{ 3 - 2 }}` is 1.
- `/`: Divides two numbers. The returned value will be a floating point number.  `{{ 1 / 2 }}` is `{{ 0.5 }}`.
- `%`: Calculates the remainder of an integer division. `{{ 11 % 7 }}` is 4.
- `*`: Multiplies the left operand with the right one. `{{ 2 * 2 }}` would return 4.


The result can be negated using the [not](#not) operator.

## not

The `not` operator is used in conjunction with [is](#is) will negate the test.

```twig
{% if 3 is not even %}
	...
{% endif %}
```

## null-coalescing

Kestra supports the null-coalescing operator that allows testing if variables are defined.

The `??` operator will return the first defined, not-null value in the list.

The `???` operator will return the right-hand side of the expression only if the left-hand side is undefined.

::alert{type="info"}
TL;DR for the null-coalescing operator:
-  `X ?? Y` will return `Y` if `X` is null or undefined
-  `X ??? Y` will return `Y` only if `X` is undefined
::


```twig
{% set baz = "baz" %}
{{ foo ?? bar ?? baz }}

{# results in: 'baz' #}

{{ foo ?? bar ?? raise }}
{# results: an exception because none of the 3 vars is defined  #}
```

::alert{type="info"}
For more details on using the null-coalescing operator, see the [Handling null and undefined values](../../15.how-to-guides/null-values.md) guide.
::

## ternary-operator

Pebble supports the use of the conditional operator (often named the ternary operator).
```twig
{{ foo == null ? bar : baz }}
```

