---
title: Deprecated handlebars
icon: /docs/icons/expression.svg
---

Handlebars are deprecated and superseded by Pebble. These functions will be removed soon and are disabled by default.

## boolean

**`eq`: Equality**

Test if two elements are equals.

> Render `yes` or `no`:
```handlebars
  {{ #eq a b }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /eq }}
```

> Render `true` or `false`:

```handlebars
  {{ eq a b }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ eq a b yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`neq`: Not equality**

Test if two elements are NOT equals.

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ #neq a b }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /neq }}
```

> Render `true` or `false`:

```handlebars
  {{ neq a b }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ neq a b yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`gt`: Greater operator**

Greater operator (arguments must be [Comparable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Comparable.html) elements).

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ #gt a b }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /gt }}
```

> Render `true` or `false`:

```handlebars
  {{ gt a b }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:
```handlebars
  {{ gte a b yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`gte`: Greater or equal operator**

Greater or equal operator (arguments must be [Comparable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Comparable.html) elements).

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ #gte a b }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /gte }}
```

> Render `true` or `false`:

```handlebars
  {{ gte a b }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ gte a b yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`lt`: Less operator**

Less than operator (arguments must be [Comparable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Comparable.html) elements).

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ #lt a b }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /lt }}
```

> Render `true` or `false`:
```handlebars
  {{ lt a b }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ lt a b yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`lte`: Less or equal operator**

Less than operator (arguments must be [Comparable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Comparable.html) elements.

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ #lte a b }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /lte }}
```

> Render `true` or `false`:

```handlebars
  {{ lte a b }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ lte a b yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`and`: And operator**

And operator. This is a boolean operation.

Truthiness of arguments is determined by [isEmpty](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#isEmpty()), so this
helper can be used with non-boolean values.

Multiple arguments are supported too:

```handlebars
  {{ #and a b c d }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /and }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ #and a b }}
    yes
  {{ else}}
    no
  {{ /and }}
```


> Render `true` or `false`:

```handlebars
  {{ and a b }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:

```handlebars
  {{ and a b yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`or`: Or operator**

Or operator. This is a boolean operation

Truthiness of arguments is determined by [isEmpty](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#isEmpty()), so this
helper can be used with non-boolean values.

Multiple arguments are supported too:

```handlebars
  {{ #or a b c d }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /or }}
```


> Render `yes` or `no`:
```handlebars
  {{ #or a b }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /or }}
```

> Render `true` or `false`:
```handlebars
  {{ or a b }}
```

> Render `yes` or `no`:
```handlebars
  {{ or a b yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`not`: Not operator**

Truthiness of arguments is determined by [isEmpty](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#isEmpty()), so this
helper can be used with non-boolean values.


> Render `yes` or `no`:
```handlebars
  {{ #not a }}
    yes
  {{ else }}
    no
  {{ /not }}
```

> Render `true` or `false`:
```handlebars
  {{ not a }}
```

> Render `y` or `n`:
```handlebars
  {{ not a yes='yes' no='no' }}
```

**`cmp`: Compare operator**

Compare to object as [Comparable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Comparable.html)s.


> Renders 1 if a > b, 0 if a == b -1 if a < b
```handlebars
  {{ cmp a b }}
```

**`isNull`: Compare operator**

Test if one element is null.

```handlebars
  {{ isNull a }}
```

**`isNotNull`: Compare operator**

Test if one element is not null.

```handlebars
  {{ isNotNull a }}
```

---

## date


**`dateFormat`: Date format**

```handlebars
{{ dateFormat date ['format'] [format='format'][tz=timeZone | timeZoneId] }}
```


**## Arguments:**
- `format`: Format parameters is one of:
  - `full`: Sunday, September 8, 2013 at 4:19:12 PM Central European Summer Time
  - `long`: September 8, 2013 at 4:19:12 PM CEST
  - `medium`: Sep 8, 2013, 4:19:12 PM
  - `short`: 9/8/13, 4:19 PM
  - `iso`: 2013-09-08T16:19:12.000000+02:00
  - `iso_sec`: 2013-09-08T16:19:12+02:00
  - `sql`: 2013-09-08 16:19:12.000000
  - `sql_seq`: 2013-09-08 16:19:12
  - `iso_date_time`: 2013-09-08T16:19:12+02:00[Europe/Paris]
  - `iso_date`: 2013-09-08+02:00
  - `iso_time`: 16:19:12+02:00
  - `iso_local_date`: 2013-09-08
  - `iso_instant`: 2013-09-08T14:19:12Z
  - `iso_local_date_time`: 2013-09-08T16:19:12
  - `iso_local_time`: 16:19:12
  - `iso_offset_time`: 16:19:12+02:00
  - `iso_ordinal_date`: 2013-251+02:00
  - `iso_week_date`: 2013-W36-7+02:00
  - `iso_zoned_date_time`: 2013-09-08T16:19:12+02:00[Europe/Paris]
  - `rfc_1123_date_time`: Sun, 8 Sep 2013 16:19:12 +0200
  - `pattern`: a date pattern.
  - Otherwise, the default formatter `iso` will be used. The format option can be specified as a parameter or hash (a.k.a named parameter).
  - You can pass the any format from [SimpleDateFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html)
- `timezeome`: with the format `Europe/Paris`

**`now`: Current date**

```handlebars
   {{ now ['format'] [tz=timeZone|timeZoneId] }}
```

**## Arguments:**
- `format`: Same format as `dateFormat`
 - `timezone`: with the format `Europe/Paris`

**`timestamp`: Current second timestamp**

```handlebars
   {{ timestamp }}
```


**`nanotimestamp`: Current nano timestamp**

```handlebars
   {{ nanotimestamp }}
```


**`microtimestamp`: Current micro timestamp**

```handlebars
   {{ microtimestamp }}
```



**`dateAdd`: Add some units to date**

```handlebars
   {{ dateAdd yourDate quantity "unit" [format="format"] [tz=timeZone|timeZoneId] }}
   {{ dateAdd yourDate -1 "DAYS" }}
```
- `quantity`: an integer value positive or negative
- `format`: Format parameters is one of:
  - `NANOS`
  - `MICROS`
  - `MILLIS`
  - `SECONDS`
  - `MINUTES`
  - `HOURS`
  - `HALF_DAYS`
  - `DAYS`
  - `WEEKS`
  - `MONTHS`
  - `YEARS`
  - `DECADES`
  - `CENTURIES`
  - `MILLENNIA`
  - `ERAS`

---

## index

::alert{type="warning"}
Handlebars variables are deprecated and superseded by Pebble. These functions will be removed soon and are disabled by default.
::

Variables are specific fields for tasks. They use the power of [handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/) with Kestra's special context system, allowing powerful task composition.

Variables can use variable information registered/existing in the execution context. The context is data injected in Variables and from different sources:

**Functions**

Sometimes, you need to change the format of variables. To do this, you can use some of the following functions:

<ChildTableOfContents />
---

## iterations

**For each**

You can iterate over a list using the built-in each helper. Inside the block, you can use `this` to reference the element being iterated over. `contextualListVariable` is an iterable item on which the mydata property is displayed for all entries.

The `@index` is a special variable available in the each loop context which value is the current index of the element being iterated. There are agic* variables like @index in a each context. The following ones are also available: `@key` `@index` `@first` `@last` `@odd` `@even`

See handlebars documentation for more about this topic.

```handlebars
{{ #each contextualListVariable }}
    {{ this.mydata }} {{ @index   }}
{{ /each }}
```

will produce

```
one 0
two 1
three 2
django! 3
```

for the following data sample when

```javascript
contextualListVariable = [
  {"mydata": "one"},
  {"mydata": "two"},
  {"mydata": "three"},
  {"mydata": "django!"},
]
```

If the contextual 'this' is not convenient to use the data as you wish, it is possible to alias it as shown below:

```handlebars
{{ #each iterableVariable as | myItem | }}
    {{myItem.mydata}}
{{ /each }}
```

---

## json

**`json` Convert an object to json**

Convert an object to is JSON representation

```handlebars
{{ json output['task-id'] }}
```

Example, if the current context is:
```json
{
  "outputs": {
    "task1": {
      "value": 1,
      "text": "awesome1"
    },
    "task2": {
      "value": 2,
      "text": "awesome2"
    }
  }
}
```

the output of `{{ json outputs.task2}}`  will be `{"value":2,"text":"awesome2"}`.

**`jq` Transform vars with JQ**

Apply the [JQ expression](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to a variables.

```handlebars
{{ jq vars jqExpr [first=false] }}
```

`first` mean to always fetch the first element, by default jq return an array of results

::alert{type="warning"}
Internally, [Jackson JQ](https://github.com/eiiches/jackson-jq) is used and support only a large subset of official JQ.
::


Example, if the current context is:

```json
{
  "outputs": {
    "task1": {
      "value": 1,
      "text": "awesome1"
    },
    "task2": {
      "value": 2,
      "text": "awesome2"
    }
  }
}
```

```handlebars
{{ jq outputs .task1.value true }}
```

the output will be `1`.


---

## number

**`numberFormat`: Format a number**
```handlebars
   {{ numberFormat number ["format"] [locale=default] }}
```

Arguments:
 - `format`: Format parameters is one of:
    - "integer": the integer number format
    - "percent": the percent number format
    - "currency": the decimal number format
    - "pattern": a decimal pattern.
    - Otherwise, the default formatter will be used.

More options:

- groupingUsed: Set whether or not grouping will be used in this format.
- maximumFractionDigits: Sets the maximum number of digits allowed in the fraction portion of
a number.
- maximumIntegerDigits: Sets the maximum number of digits allowed in the integer portion of a
number
- minimumFractionDigits: Sets the minimum number of digits allowed in the fraction portion of
a number
- minimumIntegerDigits: Sets the minimum number of digits allowed in the integer portion of a
number.
- parseIntegerOnly: Sets whether or not numbers should be parsed as integers only.
- roundingMode: Sets the {@link java.math.RoundingMode} used in this NumberFormat.

---

## string

**`capitalizeFirst`: Capitalizes the first character of the value.**

If the value is "kestra is cool !", the output will be "Kestra is cool !".

```handlebars
{{ capitalizeFirst value }}
```

**`center`: Centers the value in a field of a given width.**

If the value is "Handlebars.java", the output will be "  Handlebars.java  ".

```handlebars
{{ center value size=19 [pad="char"] }}
```

**## Arguments:**
- `size`
- `pad`


**`cut`: Removes all values of arg from the given string.**

If the value is "String with spaces", the output will be "Stringwithspaces".

```handlebars
{{ cut value [" "] }}
```




**`defaultIfEmpty`: Default if empty**

If the value evaluates to False, it will use the given default. Otherwise, it uses the
value. If value is "" (an empty string), the output will be nothing.


```handlebars
{{ defaultIfEmpty value ["nothing"] }}
```


**`join`: Join string**

Joins an array, iterator or an iterable with a string.

```handlebars
{{ join value join [prefix=""] [suffix=""] }}
```

**## Arguments:**
- `join`
- `prefix`
- `suffix`

> If value is the list ['a', 'b', 'c'], the output will be the string "a // b // c".
```handlebars
{{ join value " // " [prefix=""] [suffix=""] }}
```

> Join the "a", "b", "c", the output will be the string "a // b // c".
```handlebars
{{ join "a" "b" "c" " // " [prefix=""] [suffix=""] }}
```



**`ljust`: Left-aligns the value in a field of a given width.**

If the value is Handlebars.java, the output will be "Handlebars.java     ".


```handlebars
{{ ljust value 20 [pad=" "] }}
```

**## Arguments:**
- `field size`


**`rjust`: Right-aligns the value in a field of a given width.**

If the value is Handlebars.java, the output will be "     Handlebars.java".

```handlebars
{{ rjust value 20 [pad=" "] }}
```

**## Arguments:**
- `field size`
- `pad`



**`substring` Substring**

Returns a new `CharSequence` that is a subsequence of this sequence.
The subsequence starts with the `char` value at the specified index and
ends with the `char` value at nd - 1*

```handlebars
{{substring value start end }}
```

**## Arguments:**
- `start offset`
- `end offset`

For example:

> If the value is Handlebars.java, the output will be "java".
```handlebars
{{ substring value 11 }}
```

> If the value is Handlebars.java, the output will be "Handlebars".
```handlebars
{{ substring value 0 10 }}
```

**`lower`: Converts a string into all lowercase.**

If the value is 'Still MAD At Yoko', the output will be 'still mad at yoko'.

```handlebars
{{ lower value}}
```


**`upper` Converts a string into all uppercase.**

If the value is 'Hello', the output will be 'HELLO'.

```handlebars
{{ upper value }}
```


**`slugify` Converts to lowercase**

This removes non-word characters (alphanumerics and underscores) and converts spaces to hyphens. It also strips leading and trailing whitespace.
If the value is "Joel is a slug", the output will be "joel-is-a-slug".

```handlebars
{{ slugify value }}
```



**`stringFormat`: Formats the variable**

According to the argument, a string formatting specifier.
If the value is "Hello %s" "handlebars.java", the output will be "Hello handlebars.java".

```handlebars
{{stringFormat string param0 param1 ... paramN}}
```

**## Arguments:**
- `format`
- `paramN`




**`stripTags`: Strips all [X]HTML tags.**

```handlebars
{{ stripTags value }}
```

**`capitalize`: Capitalizes all the whitespace separated words in a String.**

If the value is "my first post", the output will be "My First Post".

```handlebars
{{ capitalize value [fully=false] }}
```

Arguments:
- `fully`



**`abbreviate`: Truncates a string**

The string will be truncated if it is longer than the specified number of characters.
Truncated strings will end with a translatable ellipsis sequence ("...").
If value is "Handlebars rocks", the output will be "Handlebars...".


```handlebars
{{ abbreviate value 13 }}
```

**## Arguments:**
- Number of characters to truncate to



**`wordWrap`: Wraps words**

This wraps the sentence at a specified line length. If value is Joel is a slug, the output would be: `Joel\nis a\nslug`


```handlebars
{{ wordWrap value 5 }}
```

**## Arguments:**
- the number of characters at which to wrap the text



**`replace` Replaces**

Each substring of this string that matches the literal target sequence with the specified literal replacement sequence.
If value is "Handlebars ...", the output will be "Handlebars rocks".

```handlebars
{{ replace value "..." "rocks" }}
```


**`yesno`: Boolean to yes / no**

For true, false and (optionally) null, to the strings "yes", "no", "maybe".

**## Arguments:**
  - `yes`
  - `no`
  - `maybe`

```handlebars
{{ yesno value [yes="yes"] [no="no"] maybe=["maybe"] }}
```

---

## use

Here you will find some examples to illustrate the available variables, and how to get the value you need.

Here is a typical payload for variables:

```yaml
globals:
  my-global-string: string
  my-global-int: 1
  my-global-bool: true

task:
  id: float
  type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return

taskrun:
  id: 5vPQJxRGCgJJ4mubuIJOUf
  startDate: 2020-12-18T12:46:36.018869Z
  attemptsCount: 0
  value: value2

parent:
  taskrun:
    value: valueA
  outputs:
    int: 1

parents:
  - taskrun:
      value: valueA
    outputs:
      int: 1
  - taskrun:
      value: valueB
    outputs:
      int: 2

flow:
  id: inputs
  namespace: company.team

execution:
  id: 42mXSJ1MRCdEhpbGNPqeES
  startDate: 2020-12-18T12:45:28.489187Z

outputs:
  my-task-id-1: # standard task outputs
    value: output-string
  my-task-id-2: # standard task outputs
    value: 42
  my-each-task-id: # dynamic task (each)
    value1: # outputs for value1
      value: here is value1
    value2: # outputs for value2
      value: here is value2

inputs:
  file: kestra:///org/kestra/tests/inputs/executions/42mXSJ1MRCdEhpbGNPqeES/inputs/file/application.yml
  string: myString
  instant: 2019-10-06T18:27:49Z
```


**Common variables**
As you can see, there are a lot of common variables that can be used in your flow, some of the most common examples are: `{{ execution.id }}`, `{{ execution.startDate }}` that allows you to change a file name or SQL query, for example.

**Input variables**
Input variables are simple to access with `{{ execution.NAME }}`, where `NAME` is the name of the declared in your flow. The data will be dependent on the `type` of the inputs.
One special case for input variables is the `FILE` type, where the file is prepended by `kestra://`. This means the file is inside the internal Kestra storage. Most tasks will take this kind of URI as a property and will provide the same property output. This type of input variable allows the full file generated by one task to be used in another task.

**Outputs variables**
One of Kestra's most important abilities is to use all outputs from previous tasks in the next one.

**Without dynamic tasks (Each)**
This is the simplest and most common way to use outputs in the next task. In order to fetch a variable, just use `{{ outputs.ID.NAME }}` where:
* `ID` is the task id
* `NAME` is the name of the output. Each task type can have any outputs that are documented on the part outputs of their docs. For example, Bash task can have `{{ outputs.ID.exitCode }}`, `{{ outputs.ID.outputFiles }}`, `{{ outputs.ID.stdErrLineCount }}`, etc...

**With dynamic tasks (Each)**
This option is more complicated since Kestra will change the way the outputs are generated, since there can be multiple tasks with the same id, you will need to use `{{ outputs.ID.VALUE.NAME }}`.

Most of the time, using Dynamic Tasks, you will need to fetch the current value of the iteration. This is done easily with `{{ taskrun.value }}`.

But what if a more complex flow is built, for example, with each containing 1 task (`t1`) to download a file (based on each value), and a second one (`t2`) that needs the output of `t1`. Such a flow would look something like this:

```yaml
id: each-sequential-nested
namespace: company.team

tasks:
  - id: each
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.EachSequential
    value: '["s1", "s2", "s3"]'
    tasks:
      - id: t1
        type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
        format: "{{ task.id }} > {{ taskrun.value }}"
      - id: t2
        type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
        format: "{{ task.id }} > {{ (get outputs.t1 taskrun.value).value }} > {{ taskrun.startDate }}"
  - id: end
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
    format: "{{ task.id }}"
```

In this case, you would need to use `{{ (get outputs.t1 taskrun.value).value }}`, which means give me from `outputs.t1` the index results from `taskrun.value`.

**With Flowable Task nested.**
If you have many Flowable Tasks, it can be complex to use the `get` function, and moreover, the `taskrun.value` is only available during the direct task from each. If you have any Flowable Tasks after, the `taskrun.value` of the first iteration will be lost (or overwritten). To deal with this, we have included the `parent` & `parents` vars.

This is illustrated in the flow below:

```yaml
id: each-switch
namespace: company.team

tasks:
  - id: t1
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
    format: "{{ task.id }} > {{ taskrun.startDate }}"
  - id: 2_each
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.EachSequential
    value: '["a", "b"]'
    tasks:
      # Switch
      - id: 2-1_switch
        type: io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.Switch
        value: "{{ taskrun.value }}"
        cases:
          a:
            - id: 2-1_switch-letter-a
              type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
              format: "{{ task.id }}"
          b:
            - id: 2-1_switch-letter-b
              type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
              format: "{{ task.id }}"

            - id: 2-1_each
              type: io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.EachSequential
              value: '["1", "2"]'
              tasks:
              - id: 2-1-1_switch
                type: io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.Switch
                value: "{{ taskrun.value }}"
                cases:
                  1:
                    - id: 2-1-1_switch-number-1
                      type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
                      format: "{{ parents[0].taskrun.value }}"
                  2:
                    - id: 2-1-1_switch-number-2
                      type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
                      format: "{{ parents[0].taskrun.value }} {{ parents[1].taskrun.value }}"
  - id: 2_end
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.debug.Return
    format: "{{ task.id }} > {{ taskrun.startDate }}"

```

As you can see, the `parent` will give direct access to the first parent output and the value of the current one, while the `parents[INDEX]` lets go you deeper down the tree.

In the task `2-1-1_switch-number-2`:
- `{{ taskrun.value }}`: mean the value of the task `2-1-1_switch`
- `{{ parents[0].taskrun.value }}` or `{{ parent.taskrun.value }}`: mean the value of the task `2-1_each`
- `{{ parents[1].taskrun.value }}`: mean the value of the task `2-1_switch`
- `{{ parents[2].taskrun.value }}`: mean the value of the task `2_each`

---

## vars

**`firstDefined` First defined variables**

Return the first defined variables or throw an exception if no variables are defined.

```handlebars
{{ firstDefined outputs.task1.uri outputs.task2.uri }}
```

**`eval` Evaluate a handlebars expression**

Evaluate a handlebars expression at runtime based on the whole context.

Mostly useful for [Lookup in current child's tasks tree](/docs/concepts/expression/expression-usage#parent-tasks-with-flowable-tasks) and dynamic tasks.


```handlebars
{{ eval 'outputs.first.[{{taskrun.value}}].value' }}
```

**`firstDefinedEval` First defined evaluation**

First defined evaluates a handlebars expression at runtime based on the whole context or throws an exception if no variables are defined.

Mostly useful for [Lookup in current child's tasks tree](/docs/concepts/expression/expression-usage#parent-tasks-with-flowable-tasks) and dynamic tasks.


```handlebars
{{ firstDefined 'outputs.first.value' 'outputs.first.[{{taskrun.value}}].value' }}
```

**`get` get an element for an array or map by key**
```handlebars
   {{ get object ["key"] }}
```

* get on `object` type map, the key at `key`
* get on `object` type array, the index at `key`

Mostly useful for [Lookup in current child's tasks tree](/docs/concepts/expression/expression-usage#parent-tasks-with-flowable-tasks) and dynamic tasks.

```handlebars
{{ get outputs 'first' }}
```

---
