---
title: Kubernetes on AWS EKS with Amazon RDS and S3
icon: /docs/icons/aws-eks.svg
---

Deploy Kestra to AWS EKS with PostgreSQL RDS database and S3 internal storage backend.

## Overview
This guide provides detailed instructions for deploying Kestra to AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) with a PostgreSQL RDS database backend and AWS S3 for internal storage.

**Prerequisites:**
- Basic command line interface skills.
- Familiarity with AWS EKS, RDS, S3, and Kubernetes.

## Launch an EKS Cluster
First, install [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/) and [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/). After installing both, you can create the EKS cluster. There are plenty of configuration options available with `eksctl`, but the default settings are sufficient for this guide. Run the following command to create a cluster named `my-kestra-cluster`:

```shell
eksctl create cluster --name my-kestra-cluster --region us-east-1
```

Wait for the cluster to be created. Once it is confirmed that the cluster is up and that your kubecontext points to the cluster, run the following command:

```shell
kubectl get svc
```

## Launch AWS RDS for PostgreSQL
Navigate to the RDS console to create a PostgreSQL database. Once your database is created, configure the settings, ensuring the database is accessible from your EKS cluster. Make note the database endpoint and port after creation for later use.

## Prepare an AWS S3 Bucket
Create a private S3 bucket (private meaning that public access is blocked). Keep a record of the bucket name as this is needed for the Kestra configuration.


## Install Kestra on AWS EKS
Add the Kestra Helm chart repository and install Kestra:

```shell
helm repo add kestra https://helm.kestra.io/
helm install my-kestra kestra/kestra
```

In the deployment configuration, integrate RDS and S3. Set the database connection under `datasources` and S3 details under `storage` in your Helm values.

Here is how you can configure RDS in the [Helm chart's values](https://github.com/kestra-io/helm-charts/blob/master/charts/kestra/values.yaml#L11):
```yaml
configuration:
  kestra:
    queue:
      type: postgres
    repository:
      type: postgres
  datasources:
    postgres:
      url: jdbc:postgresql://<your-rds-url-endpoint>:5432/kestra
      driverClassName: org.postgresql.Driver
      username: your_username
      password: your_password
```

Also, make sure to disable the PostgreSQL pod by changing the `enabled` value in the `postgresql` section from `true` to `false` in the same file.
```yaml
postgresql:
  enabled: false
```

Add the S3 configuration in the [Helm chart's values](https://github.com/kestra-io/helm-charts/blob/master/charts/kestra/values.yaml#L11) like in the following example:

```yaml
configuration:
  kestra:
    storage:
      type: s3
      s3:
        accessKey: "<your-aws-access-key-id>"
        secretKey: "<your-aws-secret-access-key>"
        region: "<your-aws-region>"
        bucket: "<your-s3-bucket-name>"
```

Once again, disable the Minio pod by changing the `enabled` value in the `minio` section from `true` to `false` in the same file.

```yaml
minio:
  enabled: false
```

To apply these configurations, use the following command:

```bash
helm upgrade kestra kestra/kestra -f values.yaml
```

## Access Kestra UI
To access the Kestra UI, implement an ingress controller. You can install the AWS Load Balancer (ALB) Controller via Helm:

```shell
helm install aws-load-balancer-controller eks/aws-load-balancer-controller \
-n kube-system \
--set clusterName=my-kestra-cluster \
--set serviceAccount.create=false \
--set serviceAccount.name=aws-load-balancer-controller
```

Once the ALB is set, you can access the Kestra UI through the ALB URL.

## Next steps

This guide walked you through installing Kestra to [AWS EKS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/) with PostgreSQL RDS database and S3 storage backend.

Reach out via [Slack](/slack) if you encounter any issues or if you have any questions regarding deploying Kestra to production.
