---
title: Podman Compose
icon: /docs/icons/podman.svg
---

Start Kestra with a PostgreSQL database backend using Podman Compose.

## Before you begin

Make sure you have already installed:

- [Podman](https://podman.io/docs/installation)
- [Podman Compose](https://github.com/containers/podman-compose?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)

## Download the Docker Compose file
Download the Docker Compose file using the following command:

```bash
curl -o docker-compose.yml \
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kestra-io/kestra/develop/docker-compose.yml
```

If you don't have `curl` installed, you can download the [Docker Compose file](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/blob/develop/docker-compose.yml) manually and save it as `docker-compose.yml`.

:::alert{type="info"}
Podman Compose works using the provided Docker Compose file out of the box.
:::

## Launch Kestra in Root Mode

:::alert{type="warning"}
To avoid errors during the `podman machine init` (`Error: exec: "qemu-img": executable file not found in $PATH`) and during the `podman machine start` (`Error: could not find "gvproxy"...`) you should install both qemu and gvproxy before:
- with a `brew install qemu` on MacOS (podman comes already installed with gvproxy and virtiofsd)
- a `sudo apt install qemu-utils qemu-system-x86 virtiofsd` on Debian / Ubuntu
- a `sudo dnf install qemu-img qemu-system-x86 podman-gvproxy virtiofsd` on Fedora / CentOS / RHEL
- a `sudo pacman -S qemu qemu-system-x86 virtiofsd` on Arch Linux (podman comes already installed with gvproxy)

Then, you may also have to edit the `~/.config/containers/containers.conf` file and add replace `/path/to/bin` with the result of `dirname $(which gvproxy)`:

```
[engine]
helper_binaries_dir = ["/path/to/bin"]
```
:::

Use the following command to create a Podman machine, start it up, and launch Kestra on it:

```bash
podman machine init --cpus 2 --rootful -v /tmp:/tmp -v $PWD:$PWD
podman machine start
podman compose up -d

# Optional steps if you have SSH related issues with `podman compose up -d`:
# podman machine inspect podman-machine-default --format '{{.SSHConfig.IdentityPath}}'
# ssh-add $(podman machine inspect podman-machine-default --format '{{.SSHConfig.IdentityPath}}')
# ssh -v -p 46719 core@127.0.0.1 echo "hello" # to accept to open a tunnel between podman and localhost
#
# Optional step if you have such an error: "Cannot connect to the Docker daemon at [path]. Is the docker daemon running?"
# export DOCKER_HOST='unix:///run/user/1000/podman/podman-machine-default-api.sock' # <= to be replaced by the above error [path]
```

:::alert{type="info"}
Podman executes containers through a VM on your local machine. In order to access local volumes from your container, you need to ensure you mount these to the podman VM, hence the `-v /tmp:/tmp -v $PWD:$PWD` arguments.

Note: Check if you have an existing podman VM on your local machine by navigating to the 'Resources' tab in podman desktop or running the command `podman machine list` in your terminal. If you have an existing VM, ensure the required volumes are mounted as expected. If that does not work, you can [recreate the podman VM](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69298356/how-to-mount-a-volume-from-a-local-machine-on-podman) with volumes mounted and then run Kestra.
:::

Open the URL `http://localhost:8080` in your browser to launch the UI.

### Adjusting the Configuration

The command above starts a *standalone* server (all architecture components in one JVM).

The [configuration](../configuration/index.md) is done inside the `KESTRA_CONFIGURATION` environment variable of the Kestra container. You can update the environment variable inside the Docker compose file or pass it via the Docker command line argument.

:::alert{type="info"}
If you want to extend your Docker Compose file, modify container networking, or if you have any other issues using this Docker Compose file, check the [Troubleshooting Guide](../10.administrator-guide/16.troubleshooting.md).

For running Kestra with Docker Compose with each server component as a separate service, see the [multi-component Docker Compose example](../server-cli/index.md).
:::

### Use a configuration file

If you want to use a configuration file instead of the `KESTRA_CONFIGURATION` environment variable to configure Kestra, you can update the default `docker-compose.yml`.

First, create a configuration file, for example named `application.yaml`, and populate with the content of the `KESTRA_CONFIGURATION` environment variable defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

Next, update `kestra` service in the `docker-compose.yml` file to mount this file into the container and make Kestra using it via the `--config` option:

```yaml
# [...]
  kestra:
    image: kestra/kestra:latest
    pull_policy: always
    # Note that this is meant for development only. Refer to the documentation for production deployments of Kestra which runs without a root user.
    user: "root"
    command: server standalone --worker-thread=128 --config /etc/config/application.yaml
    volumes:
      - kestra-data:/app/storage
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
      - /tmp/kestra-wd:/tmp/kestra-wd
      - $PWD/application.yaml:/etc/config/application.yaml
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
      - "8081:8081"
    depends_on:
      postgres:
        condition: service_started
```
